1. A 75 -year-old man is brought to the emergency department by his son 2  hours after the sudden onset of fever, chills, pleuritic 
chest pain, and cough productive of rust -colored sputum. He rates his chest pain as an 8  on a 10 -point scale. Temperature is 
38.9°C  (102°F), pulse is 106/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 130/80  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% 
on room air. The patient appears to be in moderate respiratory distress. Physical examination shows splinting on the left sid e. 
There is dullness to percussion and egophony over the left lower lobe. Abdominal examination shows no abnormalities. 
Results of l aboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    
 Calcium  8.4 mg/dL  
 Urea nitrogen  18 mg/dL  
 Creatinine  1.4 mg/dL  
 Na+ 131 mEq/L  
 K+ 4.1 mEq/L  
 Cl− 108 mEq/L  
 HCO 3− 25 mEq/L  
Blood    
 Hematocrit  37% 
 Hemoglobin  12.4 g/dL  
 WBC  21,000/mm3 
  Neutrophils, segmented  79% 
  Neutrophils, bands  10% 
  Lymphocytes  11% 
 Platelet count  250,000/mm3 
    
Arterial blood gas analysis on room air:    
 pH 7.45 
 PCO2 45 mm Hg  
 PO2 62 mm Hg  
 HCO 3− 24 mEq/L  
 O2 saturation  95% 
 
Urinalysis shows no abnormalities. An ECG shows sinus tachycardia. A chest x -ray s hows consolidation in the left lower 
lobe and no cardiomegaly. Intravenous antibiotics are administered, and the patient receives oxygen via nasal cannula. Three 
hours later, he is lying on his left side and has increased dyspnea; he is rolled to his right side and his symptoms improve 
within minutes. Which of the following best explains this improvement?  
 
(A) Positionally apparent pulmonary emboli  
(B) Positionally decreased alveolar -arterial gradient  
(C) Positionally impeded filling of the left ventricle  
(D) Positionally impeded movement of the diaphragm  
(E) Positionally increased left pleural effusion  
 
2. A 55 -year-old woman, gravida 4, para 4, comes to the office because of vaginal spotting that has occurred once monthly for 
the past 2 months. Menopause occurred 1 year ago, and this is the patient's first postmenopausal examination. Medical 
history is significant for elevated blood pressure readings during the past 2 years and diabetes mellitus for which she follo ws 
an 1800 -calorie diet. She takes no medicat ions. Her most recent cervical cytology and mammography obtained 1 year ago 
disclosed no abnormalitie s. Family history is significant for hypertension in her mother who died at age 58 years from an 
unknown cancer. The patient has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 30 years and drinks beer occasionally. BMI 
is 42 kg/m2. Temperature is 36.7°C  (98.0°F), pulse is 90/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 136/84 mm Hg. 
Bimanual examination discloses a firm, smooth, mobile, nontender ut erus that is consistent in size with a 6 -week gestation. 
The remainder of the physical examination di scloses no abnormalities. Results of dipstick urinalysis are within the reference 
ranges; fingerstick hematocrit is 35% and 2 -hour postprandial serum glucose concentration is 188 mg/dL. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate diagnostic study at this time?  
 
(A) Complete blood count  
(B) CT scan of the pelvis  
(C) Endometrial biopsy  
(D) Hysterosalpingography  
(E) Serum CA 125 concentration  

3. A 28 -year-old woman comes to the health center for an initial visit. The patient appears somewhat anxious. After 
introductions she says, "Doctor, something has been happening to me for the past 6  weeks or so that has me a bit scared. 
About once or twice a week, and out of nowhere and for no reason, I have this sudden feeling of anxiety. It really gets sever e 
and I get short of breath. I just don't know what's going on." She has recently divorced her husband of 7  years. Given the 
evidence at this time, which  of the fol lowing is the most likely diagnosis?  
 
(A) Adjustment disorder with anxiety  
(B) Agoraphobia  
(C) Dysthymic disorder  
(D) Generalized anxiety disorder  
(E) Posttraumatic stress disorder
  
4. A 71 -year-old woman with a 15 -year history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is admitted to the 
intensive care unit for treatment of an acute COPD exacerbation. The patient has been receiving home oxygen therapy for the 
past 3 years; FEV 11 year ago was 27%. She has a do -not-resuscitate order stating that she  does not want cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation, with no specific comment on intubation. Her daughter, who is not present, has power of attorney for the 
patient's health care decisions,  although the patient has made all decisions in the past. Medical history also is significant for 
hypertension. Medications are lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide, as well as inhaled tiotropium, albuterol, and fluticasone. 
The patient is intubated and mechanical ventilation is begun. She is treated with antibiotics, corticostero ids, and nebulized 
bronchodilators. Her condition gradually improves and she is extubated 4 days later. Within 2 hours of extubation, the patien t 
becomes short of breath and has diff iculty clearing her secretions. She is not using accessory muscles of respiration. 
Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 98/min, respirations are 25/min, and blood pressure is 168/98 mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 89% on oxygen at 6 L/min. The patient is alert, fully oriented, and conversant. Results of arterial blood gas 
analys is are shown:  
 
PO2 61 mm Hg  
PCO2 55 mm Hg  
pH 7.32 
 
An attempt is made to manage the patient with noninvasive positive pressure ventilation, but the patient reports discomfort 
caused by the mask and requests that it be removed. When initially asked, she declines to be reintubated. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Clearly state to the patient that if she again declines intubation when offered to her one more time, she will receive 
comfort care only  
(B) Contact th e patient's daughter to request additional information regarding the patient's previous feelings regarding 
intubation  
(C) Explain to the patient that because her advance directive is confusing, discussing her options would be helpful  
(D) Proceed with reintubating the patient  
(E) Request psychiatric evaluation of the patient's capacity to make health care decisions  
 
5. A phase 3 trial is planned to investigate the use of a new medication for the prevention of type  2 diabetes mellitus. Which of 
the following inclusion criteria should be selected to design the most efficient study?  
 
(A) Patients aged 18 years and older who have a BMI of less than 23 kg/m2 and are smokers  
(B) Patients aged 18 years and older with no significant medical history  
(C) Patients aged 45 years and older with hyperlipidemia and central obesity  
(D) Patients aged 65 years and older with a hemoglobin A 1c of 6.5% or greater  
 
6. A 60 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital 4  hours after he awoke early this morning with shortness of breath , dizziness, 
and pleuritic chest pain. Medical history is significant for coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, and chronic obstructive  
pulmonary disease. Medications are atorvastatin, enteric -coated 81 -mg aspirin, atenolol, albuterol, ipratropium, and home 
oxygen at 1  L/min via nasal cannula. He has not had any recent illness or exposure to anyone known to be ill. He has smoked 
one pack of cig arettes daily for the past 40  years and he drinks three  to four  alcoholic beverages monthly. BMI is 21  kg/m2. 
Temperature is 36.9°C  (98.4°F), pulse is 150/min, respirations are 36/min, and blood pressure is 105/72  mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 84% on oxygen at 1 L/min via nasal cannula. The patient appears uncomfortable and is speaking in three - to 
four-word sentences. Jugular venous pressure is 10  cm H2O at 45  degrees. Auscultation of the lungs discloses poor air 
movement and diffuse scattered inspiratory wh eezes bilaterally. Cardiac examination discloses a palpable parasternal lift. 
The abdomen is protuberant with a visible fluid wave and a palpable epigastric pulsation. The liver edge is palpated 3  cm 
below the right costal margin and the area is tender. Examination of the lower extremities shows 2+ bilateral pitting edema. 
Chest x -ray and ECG are shown. Which of the following is the most likely underlying explanation for this patient's 
condition?  
 
(A) External compression of the superior vena cava  
(B) Helicobacter pylori  infection with transmural ulceration and peritoneal leaking  
(C) Lactic acidosis caused by systemi c hypoperfusion  
(D) Pulmonary vasculature compromise and cor pulmonale  
(E) Widespread hepatocellular necrosis and parenchymal edema  
  
7. A 67 -year-old male US military veteran is admitted to the rehabilitation facility 3 days after undergoing uncomplicated 
revision of his left transtibial amputation to a transfemoral amputation, which was required because of dehiscence of the 
previous incision. Today, the patient reports pain at the site of incision that he rates as a 3 on a 10 -point scale. He reports 
phantom sensation but no phantom pain. He also has atrial fibrillation, type 2 diabetes mellitus, mild diabetic retinopathy, 
hypertension, and  severe peripheral vascular disease that required aortic to bilateral iliac arterial bypass 2 years ago. 
Medications are dabigatran, lisinopril, metformin, and metoprolol. The patient is 172 cm (5 ft 8 in) tall and weighs 86 kg 
(190 lb); BMI is 29 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 68/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 
138/88 mm Hg. The patient d oes not appear to be in distress. Examination shows a well -healing incision. Fingerstick blood 
glucose concentration is 120 mg/dL. Whi ch of the following findings on further physical examination is most likely to inhibit 
this patient's long -term ability to ambulate with a prosthesis?  
 
(A) A 3 -cm-diameter blackened eschar on the right heel  
(B) A 5 -degree left hip flexion contracture  
(C) An irregular pulse  
(D) Loss of proprioception in the right great toe  
 
8. Researchers at a large health sciences center woul d like to evaluate the relationship between dental x -rays and risk for thyroid 
cancer. They plan to enroll 300  participants with thyroid cancer and 400  participants without thyroid cancer. All participants 
will be asked to report past exposure to dental x -rays. The study will be federally funded. Since many of the participants may 
have received dental x -rays at the institution, a member of the institutional review board (IRB) is concerned about increased 
liability arising from the results of the study, espe cially if a positive association between dental x -rays and thyroid cancer is 
found. Which of the following is the most appropriate response by the IRB regarding the member’s concern?  
 
(A) Approve the study as submitted  
(B) Do not approve the study  
(C) Require language in the informed consent document advising participants of the right to sue should a positive 
association between dental x -rays and thyroid cancer be found  
(D) Require language in the informed consent document releasing the institution from lia bility  
 
9. A 39 -year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 1 -day history of progressively worsening generalized 
itchiness of his skin. He also has had pain with urination and blood in his urine during the past 5  days. He has not had fever, 
chills, nausea, vomiting, flank pain, or diarrhea. Two days ago he was seen in the emergency department and diagnosed with 
renal calculi. Medical history otherwise is remarkable for psoriasis. His current medications are oxycodone -ibuprofen, 
tamsulosin, a nd topical clobetasol. Vital signs are temperature 36.7°C (98.0°F), pulse 76/min, respirations 12/min, and blood 
pressure 118/74  mm Hg. Examination of the skin shows multiple excoriations over the back and abdomen; no lesions are 
noted. The remainder of the physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of urinalysis are shown:  
 
Specific gravity  1.010 (N=1.003 –1.029)  
Bilirubin  Trace positive  
Blood  3+ 
Leukocyte esterase  Negative  
RBCs  Positive  
 
Which of the following is the most likely cause of  this patient's pruritus?  
 
(A) Exacerbation of psoriasis  
(B) Obstruction of the common bile duct  
(C) Oxycodone therapy  
(D) Tamsulosin therapy  
(E) Ureteral obstruction  
 
10. A 72 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital through the emergency department because of a 12 -hour history of fever, chills, 
increasingly severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. Medical history includes hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and 
atherosclerotic heart disease with placement of a coronary artery stent 3 years ago. Current  medications are atorvastatin and 
lisinopril. He appears anxious and pale. BMI is 30 kg/m2. Temperature is 40.0°C (104.0°F), pulse is 116/min, respirations are 
20/min, and  blood pressure is 100/65 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% on room air. A bruit is heard over the right carotid 
artery. Cardiac examination discloses no murmurs; an S 4 is present. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Abdominal examination 
discloses decreased bowel sounds and diffuse tenderness with guarding that is most severe in the left upper  quadrant. Both 
lower extremities are cool to touch with weak pedal pulses. Abdominal x -ray shows dilation of the proximal colon. Results of 
serum laboratory studies are s hown:  
 
Amylase  230 U/L  
Urea nitrogen  20 mg/dL  
Creatinine  1.0 mg/dL  
Na+ 138 mEq/L  
K+ 3.5 mEq/L  
Cl− 101 mEq/L  
HCO 3− 12 mEq/L  
Glucose  180 mg/dL  
 
Surgical resection of the colon is done. Which of the following histopathologic changes will most likely be identified in the  
resected colon?  
 
(A) Caseating granulomatous inflammation with serosal fibrous ad hesions  
(B) Coagulative necrosis involving mucosa and submucosa  
(C) Neutrophilic infiltrates in the mucosa with venous congestion and edema  
(D) Patchy mucopurulent exudate with exploding glandular crypts  
(E) Transmural chronic inflammation with ulcerations extending into submucosa  
 
11. A 37 -year-old woman comes to the emergency department because of a 4 -hour history of severe right -sided abdominal pain. 
She describes the pain as sharp and says it radiates to the pelvic region; she rates the pain as a 9 on a 10 -point scale. She also 
has had associated nausea but has not vomited. She has not had any recent trauma, fever, chills, changes in bowel habits, or 
urinary symptoms. She took ibuprofen 3 hours ago but has had no relief of her current symptoms. Medical history is 
otherwise unremarkabl e and she takes no other medications. She does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages. She 
is not sexually active and her last menstrual period ended 4 days ago. The patient is holding her right side and is grimacing  in 
pain. Temperature is 37.2°C (99.0°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 136/74 mm Hg. 
Auscultation of the chest discloses normal breath sounds and normal S 1 and S 2. Abdominal examination discloses normal 
bowel sounds, tenderness with voluntary guardin g on the right side, but no palpable masses. Pain is elicited on percussion 
over the right costovertebral angle. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    
 Urea nitrogen  16 mg/dL  
 Creatinine  0.8 mg/dL  
 Calcium  9.8 mg/dL  
Blood    
 Hemoglobin  13.9 g/dL  
 WBC  13,000/mm3 
  Neutrophils  68% 
  Lymphocytes  27% 
  Monocytes  3% 
  Eosinophils  2% 
Urine    
 Specific gravity  1.010 (N=1.003 –1.029)  
 Occult blood  Trace positive  
 pH 6.0 
 Glucose  Negative  
 Protein  Negative  
 
Intravenous fluids and analgesic therapy are initiated. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in evaluatio n? 
 
(A) Cystoscopy  
(B) Exploratory laparotomy  
(C) Helical CT scan of t he abdomen  
(D) X -ray of the kidney, ureter, and bladder  
(E) No further testing is indicated at this time  
 
12. A 75 -year-old woman is brought to the emergency department by her husband 60 minutes after she "fainted" while standing 
at the bathroom sink. The husband witnessed her fainting spell and says she lost consciousness for approximately 15 to 30 
seconds. He says she was alert upon awakening but looked pale. The patient did not have any tonic -clonic movements and 
sustained no traumatic injuries during the  fall. She did not have palpitations or other warning signs prior to losing 
consciousness and has not had slu rred speech or abnormalities of movement upon awakening. Medical history is significant 
for hypertension and gout. Medications include lisinopril, metoprolol, 81 -mg aspirin, and allopurinol. She has no drug 
allergies. She does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages. The patient is in no acute distress. Temperature is 
37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 68/min, respirations are 15/min, and blood pres sure is 162/74 mm Hg. Standing pulse and blood 
pressure are 70/min and 172/75 mm Hg, respectively. Pulse and blood pressure after standing for 2 minutes are 68/min and 
148/58 mm Hg, respectively. Examination of the neck discloses jugular venous distention, 5 cm at 30 degrees; there are no 
carotid bruits. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses a regular rhythm with a soft systolic ejection  
murmur heard best at the left upper sternal border. There is no peripheral edema and pulses are 2+ bilaterally. Neurologic 
examination and ECG disclose no abnormalities. Serum troponin I concentration is 0 .1 ng/mL (N<0.35). Results of the 
remaining laboratory studies are within the reference ranges. CT scan of the head shows no abnormalities. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate next step in evaluation?  
 
(A) Electroencephalography  
(B) Outpatient ambulatory ECG monitoring (24 -hour)  
(C) Outpatient echocardiography  
(D) Telemetry observation  
(E) Tilt test  
 
13. A 52 -year-old man comes to the emerg ency department because of fever and nonpruritic lesions that suddenly developed over 
his legs 2 hours ago. He has not had any gastrointestinal symptoms. Medical history is significant for type 2 diabetes mellit us 
and cirrhosis secondary to hemochromatosis. Medications include insulin and spironolactone. Vaccinations are up -to-date. 
The patient returned home 1 day ago from a vacation in a southeastern state. He has had no known contact with anyone who 
has been ill. On arr ival, temperature is 38.6°C (101.5°F ), pulse is 118/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 
84/50 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 93% on room air. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses a grade 
2/6 systolic murmur heard best along the left sternal border. Spider angiomas are present over the torso. Abdomen is 
distended and diffusely dull to percussion. Palpation of the abdomen does not disclose tenderness. The liver and spleen are 
not palpated. The lower extremities are eryth ematous and warm to the touch; hemor rhagic bullae are present from the dorsum 
of the feet to the knees bilaterally. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 ALT  68 U/L   Hematocrit  33% 
 AST  61 U/L   Hemoglobin  11.0 g/dL  
 Urea nitrogen  31 mg/dL   WBC  16,000/mm3 
 Creatinine  2.1 mg/dL    Neutrophils, segmented  85% 
 Na+ 127 mEq/L    Neutrophils, bands  4% 
 K+ 5.0 mEq/L    Lymphocytes  7% 
 Cl− 95 mEq/L    Monocytes  4% 
 HCO 3− 16 mEq/L   Platelet count  83,000/mm3 
 Lactate dehydrogenase  166 U/L      
 Glucose  354 mg/dL      
 
Which of the following microorganisms is the most likely causal agent of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Enterobacter aerogenes  
(B) Enterococcus faecalis  
(C) Mycobacterium marinum  
(D) Vibrio vulnificus  
 
14. A 58 -year-old man comes to the office for follow -up of an 8 -month history of blood pressure readings ranging between 150 
and 180 mm Hg systolic, and 85 and 100 mm Hg diastolic. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable. Medications include 
20-mg lisinopril, 100 -mg atenolol, 25 -mg hydrochlorothiazide, and amlodipine.  At the patient's last visit 6 weeks ago, the 
dose of amlodipine was increased from 5 mg to 10 mg. The patient does not smoke cigarettes and drinks alcoholic beverages 
socially. BMI is 24 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 86/min, respirations are 14/min, and blood pressure is 
176/102 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    
 Urea nitrogen  18 mg/dL  
 Creatinine  1.0 mg/dL  
 Na+ 140 mEq/L  
 K+ 4.2 mEq/L  
 Cl− 105 mEq/L  
 HCO 3− 25 mEq/L  
 
Specific additional history should be obtained regarding which of the following?  
 
(A) Caffeine use  
(B) Exercise history  
(C) Frequency of fast f ood consumption  
(D) Refill patterns on medications  
 
15. A 65 -year-old man comes to the office because of a 4 -month history of increasingly severe joint pain. Medical history is 
significant for an acute anterior myocardial infarction 5 years ago. Current medications are metoprolol and 81 -mg aspirin. 
Active and passive motion of the elbow and knee joints elicits pain. A diagnosis of osteoarthritis is made. The patient says 
that a colleague of his recommended celecoxib to treat his pain. The concerns with addin g celecoxib to this patient's 
medication regimen are re lated to inhibition of which of the following processes?  
 
(A) Both cyclooxygenase -1 (COX -1) and cyclooxygenase -2 (COX -2) decreasing prostanoid production  
(B) COX -1 decreasing prostacyclin (PGI 2) production  
(C) COX -1 decreasing thromboxane A 2 production  
(D) COX -2 decreasing prostacyclin (PGI 2) production  
(E) COX -2 decreasing thromboxane A 2 production  
 
16. The quality improvement department of a hospital has received several incident reports indicating tha t patients admitted to the 
hospital have received a different amount of oxygen than was originally ordered by the admitting physician. On admission, 
the current practice for ordering oxygen therapy is that the admitting physician includes oxygen in the written admission 
orders. An example of admission orders for oxygen is shown:  
 
Oxygen: 2 liters via nasal cannula with goal of oxygen saturation >90%  
 
After patients are admitted to the hospital, the amount of oxygen a patient receives is based upon physician  and nurse 
discussion, which is not usually documented in the medical record as an additional order. In addition to reviewing the 
hospital's protocol for oxygen delivery, instituting which of the following measures would most likely decrease discrepancies  
in oxygen delivery without creating additional risks?  
 
(A) Conducting an in -service program on oxygen use and documentation of orders  
(B) Creating a standard set of oxygen orders that includes initial dose, titration parameters, and goal dose  
(C) Encouragi ng the nurses to refrain from adjusting the patient's oxygen dose without a written order from the physician  
(D) Requiring nurses to enter verbal orders in the electronic medical record and requiring physician signature within 24 
hours  
(E) Requiring nurses to telephone a physician prior to any deviation from the original admission order for oxygen therapy  
 
17. A 21 -year-old ballet dancer comes to the office because she and her husband would like to conceive. She has not had a 
menstrual period during the past  8 months. She runs 13 km (8 mi) daily. The patient identifies as White. She is 165 cm (5 ft 5 
in) tall and weighs 48 kg (105 lb); BMI is 18 kg/m2. Temperature is 36.1°C  (97.0°F), pulse is 52/min, respirations are 
20/min, and blood pressure is 90/70 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses a thin woman. The remainder of the physical 
examination shows no abnormali ties. The patient is advised to gain weight and to decrease the amount of strenuous exercise. 
She returns for follow -up 3 months later. She says she s till has not had a period even though she has gained 2 kg (4.4 lb). 
Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's amenorrhea?  
 
(A) Addison disease  
(B) Hypothalamic hypogonadism  
(C) Partial hypopituitarism  
(D) Polycystic ovarian syndrome  
(E) Premature ovarian failure  
 
18. A 19 -year-old woman who is at 32 weeks' gestation comes to the clinic for a prenatal visit. She says, "I  tried to quit smoking 
as soon as I knew I was pregnant," but she admits that she has only been able to decrease he r smoking to 5 to 10 cigarettes 
daily. Her partner has continued to smoke during the pregnancy. The patient has a history of cocaine use but her urine 
screening studies have been negative during this pregnancy. The patient is unemployed and dropped out of school in the 11th 
grade. She has bee n receiving supplemental nutritional foods during this pregnancy. She says she plans to bottle -feed this 
baby because her friends have told her, "Breast -feeding hurts you, and besides, formula makes babies grow faster."  Which of 
the following factors in this patient's history places her infant at greatest risk for sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)?  
 
(A) Employment status  
(B) History of cocaine use  
(C) Lack of breast -feeding  
(D) Maternal smoking  

19. Patient Information  
 Age:  66 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
The patient presents because of a 3 -day history of increasingly severe pain when swallowing solids and liquids. Use of over -
the-counter antacids has not resulted  in relief. There is no associated nausea, vomiting, or loss of appetite. Medical history is 
remarkable for hypertension, diet -controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, migraine, and osteoporosis. Current medications are 
alendronate, chlorthalidone, propranolol, sumatriptan, and calcium citrate with vitamin D supplements. She has smoked one -
half pack of cigarettes daily for 10 years and drinks one to two alcoholic beverages monthly. She does not use other 
substances. BMI is 24 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6° F), pulse is 84/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 
130/90 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Endoscopy is most 
likely to show ulceration of which of the following structures?  
 
(A) Duodenum  
(B) Esophagus  
(C) Gastric cardia  
(D) Gastric fundus  
(E) Pylorus  
 
20. An 11 -year-old boy is brought to the office by his parents for a well -child examination and routine vaccinations. His medical 
history is unremarkable and he receives no medications. Va ccinations were up -to-date at his most recent examination 1 year 
ago. He is not sexually active, and the family is affiliated with a religion that teaches abstinence. The parents express 
reluctance about administering the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine today because of the potential adverse effects 
associated with the vacc ine. They ask if their son really needs this vaccine today, given that he will not become sexually 
active until he is much older and married. The patient’s vital signs are within norma l limits. Physical examination shows no 
abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate response to the parents?  
 
(A) Acknowledge that there are risks associated with vaccines but emphasize that those associated with the HPV vaccine 
are small because it is an inactivated vaccine  
(B) Advise the parents to vaccinate their son in order to contribute to the elimination of HPV from the general population  
(C) Explain that even if their son waits until marriage to have sex, he could still be exposed to HPV by his future partner  
(D) Provide the parents with literature about the vaccine and advise them that they may defer the decision because the 
vaccine may be administered until the age of 26 years  
 
Question  
In patients with cirrhosis and acute bleeding esophageal varices, how do endoscopic sclerotherapy and emergency portacaval sh unt 
compare for control of bleeding and survival?  
Methods  
Design : Randomized controlled trial (San Diego Bleeding Esophageal Varices Study). ClinicalTrials.gov NCT0069002 7. 
Allocation : Concealed.  
Blinding : Blinded (gastroenterologist who evaluated patients for portal -systemic encephalopathy).  
Follow -up period : Up to 17 years.  
Setting : University of California San Diego Medical Center.  
Patients : 211 patients (mean age 49 years, 77% men) with acute bleeding esophageal varices resulting from cirrhosis, who required 
a transfusion of ≥ 2 units of blood  and, for patients transferred from other hospitals, observation of upper gastrointestinal bleeding 
within 48 hours of transfer. Exclusion criterion was > 1 previous session of endoscopic sclerotherapy.  
Intervention : Endoscopic sclerother apy ( n = 106) or emergency portacaval shunt ( n = 105). Emergency portacaval shunt comprised 
a direct side -to-side or direct end -to-side portacaval shunt done within 8 hours of initial contact.  
Outcomes : Control of bleeding at > 30 days, survival, readmissions for variceal or nonvariceal bleeding requiring transfusion of 
packed red blood cells, and recurrent portal -systemic encephalopathy.  
Patient follow -up: 100% (minimum follow -up until death or 9.4 years).  
Main results  
15-year survival was lower with endos copic sclerotherapy than with emergency portacaval shunt (10/106 vs 48/105, relative benefit 
reduction 79%, 95% CI 62 to 89; number needed to harm 3, CI 2 to 4). Other main results are shown in the Table.  The abstract displayed on these following pages is for use with items #21 -23 on page 26. 
 
Endoscopic sclerotherapy (EST) vs emergency portacaval shunt (EPCS) in patients with cirrhosis and acute bleeding 
esophageal varices  
Outcomes  Child risk      P 
  class  EST  EPCS  value  
Control of bleeding at > 30 days*    20% 100%  <.001  
Median survival (years)  A 4.62 10.43  .003 
  B 2.61 6.19 <.001  
  C 0.58 5.30 .005 
Mean number of readmissions for    6.8 0.4 <.001  
 variceal bleeding requiring packed red          
 blood cell transfusion          
Recurrent portal -systemic encephalopathy†    35% 15% .001 
          
*Excluding indeterminate deaths at 14 d ays from nonbleeding causes.  
†In patients who survived 30 days and left hospital.  
Conclusion  
In patients with cirrhosis and acute bleeding esophageal varices, emergency portacaval shunt was better than endoscopic 
sclerotherapy for control of bleeding, recurrent encephalopathy, and survival.  
Sources of funding : National Institutes of Health and Surgical Education and Research Foundation.  
Structured abstract based on : Orloff MJ, Isenberg JI, Wheeler HO, et al. Randomized trial of emergency endoscopic 
sclero therapy versus emergency portacaval shunt for acutely bleeding esophageal varices in cirrhosis.  J Am Coll Surg. 
2009;209:25 -40. 19651060  
 
21. A 52 -year-old man with hepatic cirrhosis comes to the emergency department because of a 3 -hour history of vomiting blood. 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy confirms actively bleeding esophageal varices. Based on the abstract shown, the physician is 
considering an emergency portacaval shunt (EPCS) procedure rather than endoscopic sclerotherapy (EST). According to the 
result s in the abstract, approximately how many patients must be treated with EPCS rather than EST to prevent one case of 
recurrent portal -systemic en cephalopathy?  
 
(A) 1  
(B) 3  
(C) 5  
(D) 10  
(E) 16  
 
22. Which of the following most strongly limits the generalizability of this study's findings?  
 
(A) The allocation was concealed  
(B) EPCS is available only at specialty centers  
(C) The follow -up period was too short  
(D) The patients were not blinded  
(E) Unmeasured confounders were not controlled by the study design  
 
23. Which of the following conclusions is most appropriate based on the results presented in the table?  
 
(A) The 95% confidence interval for the difference in survival between EPCS and EST for Child -Pugh class A patients 
includes 0  years  
(B) EPCS is more effective than EST in decreasing hospital readmissions for variceal bleeding requiring transfusion  
(C) The median survival after EPCS is statistically significantly less for Child -Pugh class C than for Child -Pugh class B  
(D) The randomization procedure was inef fective in decreasing bias in this study  
 
END OF SET  
 Items #21 –23 refer to the abstract displayed on the previous pages.  
 
24. An 18 -year-old woman with a 5 -year history of epilepsy comes to the office with her parents for a follow -up examination. 
She has sustained three seizures during the past 6 months; all of her seizures originate from the temporal lobe. 
Anticonvulsant therapy has not decreased the frequency of her seizures. The patient and her parents ask about the potential 
benefits of partial temporal lobectomy. The physician performs a literature search and finds a p ublished study conducted by a 
large surgical center evalua ting outcomes of the operation. A total of 85 patients who underwent partial temporal lobectomy 
during a 3 -year period were observed for 15 years to determine the number and frequency of seizures sustained 
postoperatively. Subgroup analyses were conducted of patients who reported no seizures 1 and 2 years postoperatively. A 
Kaplan -Meier plot of long -term outcomes is shown; the P-values provided represent subgroups compared with all other study 
patien ts. Which of the following is the most appropriate conclus ion to draw from these data regarding seizure recurrence 
after the procedure?  
 
(A) The absence of seizures 2 years postoperatively is the best predictor of long -term seizure control  
(B) The majority of seizure recurrence occurred between 2 and 3 years postoperatively  
(C) 30% of patients were seizure free 6 months after the procedure  
(D) No conclusion can be determined because the subgroup analysis lacks statistical significance  
  
25. A 2-week -old newbo rn with trisomy 18 diagnosed at birth is brought to the office by his parents for a follow -up visit. He is 
unable to suck properly and receives all his nutrition via nasogastric tube. The newborn was born at 37 weeks' gestation to a  
29-year-old woman, gravida 2, para 1. Apgar scores were 4 at 1 minute and 8 at 5 minutes. The father is age 30 years. They 
have a 4 -year-old daughter who is healthy. The mother reports that her son has trouble breathing and often stops breathing 
for up to 20 se conds at a time. H e has had no fever, vomiting, or diarrhea. Length is 46 cm (18 in; 5th percentile), weight is 
2400 g (5 lb 5 oz; 5th percentile), and head circumference is 32 cm (13 in; 10th percentile). Physical examination shows 
dysmorphic features with a small jaw and small head, as noted at birth. The patient is listless and his breaths are shallow. 
During the examination, he has episodes of apnea lasting up to 15 seconds. His tone is increased and he has overlapping 
fingers and rocker bottom feet. Th ere is a 3/6 systo lic murmur heard loudest over the left sternal border. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate next step?  
 
(A) Admission to the hospital for a sleep apnea study  
(B) CT scan of the head  
(C) Electroencephalography  
(D) Referral to a cardiologist  
(E) Referral to home hospice care  
 
26. A 79 -year-old retired executive schedules an urgent office visit. When you see him, he says that he had difficulty walking 
upon getting out of bed this morning because of dizziness, which started last week and worsened last night. He has a 20 -year 
history of hypertension, for which he was treated, but for the past 10 years his blood pressure has been normal without 
treatment. At his most recent visit 3 weeks ago, his blood pressure was 150/90 mm Hg and he was instructed to adhere to a 
low-salt diet. He dran k a moderate amount of alcoholic beverages in the past and smoked about 16 cigarettes daily from age 
20 years to age 50  years. He has not smoked cigarettes during the past 29 years. He is taking no medication at present. All  his 
close relatives have lived to be at least in their 80s. This morning, pulse is 78/min and regular and blood pressure is 160/9 0 
mm Hg. Neurologic examination shows instability when the patient is turning and horizontal nystagmus with change in 
position. Funduscopic examination shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?  
 
(A) Cardiac arrhythmia  
(B) Cerebellar ataxia due to alcohol abuse  
(C) Labyrinthitis  
(D) Orthostatic hypotension  
(E) Stroke  
 
27. A 78 -year-old woman who r esides in a nursing care facility has had increasing confusion and drowsiness during the past 10 
days. The head nurse says, "The patient is usually alert, talkative, and outgoing, but during the past several days she has 
become increasingly confused and withdrawn. She drifts off to sleep even during activities that she enjoys." Vital signs have  
remained normal, and she has been eating well. There has been no change in her medication regimen, which includes 
pravastatin for hyperchole sterolemia, amlodipine fo r hypertension, a daily 81 -mg aspirin, and periodic sublingual 
nitroglycerin for stable angina pectoris. On interview, the patient says she does not have any symptoms. The patient identifi es 
as White. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 117/84 mm Hg. 
The patient appears to be drifting in and out of sleep during the physical examination, but she is arousable and not in distr ess. 
She is oriented only to person and place. Ther e is a 5 -cm ecchymosis wi thout hematoma on the right parietal scalp. Pupils are 
equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation. Ocular movements are intact. Optic discs are poorly visualized due to 
bilateral cataracts. The remainder of the physical examination, including neurologic examination, shows no abnormalities. 
Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Urea nitrogen  15 mg/dL   Hemoglobin  13.0 g/dL  
 Creatinine  1.0 mg/dL   WBC  8000/mm3 
 Na+ 136 mEq/L   Platelet count  160,000/mm3 
 K+ 3.9 mEq/L  Urine    
 Cl− 95 mEq/L   Specific gravity  1.015 (N=1.003 –1.029)  
 HCO 3− 25 mEq/L   pH 6.5 (N=4.5 –7.8) 
 Glucose  98 m g/dL   Protein  Negative  
     Glucose  Negative  
     Occult blood  Negative  
     Leukocyte esterase  Negative  
     Nitrite  Negative  
 
Which of the following is the most likely explanation for the patient's worsening condition?  
 
(A) Drug -drug interaction  
(B) Head trauma  
(C) Hypothyroidism  
(D) Major depressive episode  
(E) Viral encephalitis  
 
28. A 12 -year-old girl with a seizure disorder is brought to the emergency department 40 minutes after her aunt found her 
unconscious in her backyard. The aunt reports that the patient is visiting her for the summer. On arrival, the patient is awa ke 
but drowsy. She says she is embarrassed because she forgot to bring her anticonvulsant medication from home. She requests 
that you not call her mother "because she will yell and get angry." Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 74/min, 
respirations are 16/min, an d blood pressure is 100/70  mm Hg. Physical examination shows no focal neurologic deficits. The 
patient requests that she receive one dose of carbamazepine now and that she be given a prescription to fill at the nearby 
pharmacy. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?  
 
(A) Administer the dose of carbamazepine and provide a prescription  
(B) Administer the dose of carbamazepine but do not provide a prescri ption  
(C) Attempt to contact the mother for permission to treat before proceeding  
(D) Do not contact the mother but request that the aunt sign a consent form  
(E) Provide a prescription, but do not administer the dose of carbamazepine  
  
29. A 63 -year-old man comes to the office because of a 10 -minute episode of right eye blindness 2  days ago. The episode 
resolved spontaneously and there was no associated eye pain. Medical history is remarkable for hypertension and type  2 
diabetes mellitus. Medications include hy drochlorothiazide, metoprolol, glipizide, simvastatin, and 81 -mg aspirin. He is 
183 cm (6  ft) tall and weighs 104  kg (229  lb); BMI is 31  kg/m2. Vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination 
discloses pupils that are equal i n size and reactive to light. Visual fields are intact. Visual acuity is 20/20 in both eyes with 
corrective lenses. Cardiac examination discloses a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs. Neurologic examination 
discloses no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most a ppropriate diagnostic study at this time?  
 
(A) Fluorescein angiography of the right eye  
(B) Measurement of intraocular pressures  
(C) Transesophageal echocardiography  
(D) Ultrasonography of the neck  
(E) No further evaluation is indicated  
 
30. A 55 -year-old man comes to the office because of a 4 - to 6-week history of what he describes as "chest pounding" that 
worsens when he lies on his back. He also reports occasional episodes of nonexertional chest pain lasting 1 to 2  minutes. He 
is unable to further charact erize the pain. He says that he has had moderate shortness of breath after walking three blocks, but 
he has not had nocturnal dyspnea. Medical history is remarkable for type  2 diabetes mellitus and gastroesophageal reflux 
disease. Curre nt me dications include simvastatin, metformin, esomeprazole, and 81 -mg aspirin. The patient has smoked one 
pack of cigarettes daily for the past 35  years. Family history is remarkable for myocardial infarction in his father at age 
58 years. The patient is 183  cm (6 ft) tall a nd weighs 91  kg (200 lb); BMI is 27 kg/m2. Temperature is 36.7°C (98.1°F), pulse 
is 88/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 165/55  mm Hg. There is no jugular venous distention. Carotid 
pulses are brisk and bounding. Auscu ltation of the lungs discloses mild, diffuse wheezes. Cardiac examination discloses a 
point of maximal impulse that is displaced laterally. There is a soft S 1 and S 2; a grade  3/6 blowing murmur is audible at the 
lower left sternal border that extends through two -thirds of dia stole. Systolic and diastolic bruits are heard over both femoral 
arteries. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Cholesterol     Hemoglobin  13.0 g/dL  
  Total  300 mg/dL   WBC  10,500/mm3 
  HDL  30 mg/dL      
  LDL  180 mg/dL      
 Triglyc erides 190 mg/dL      
 Urea nitrogen  28 mg/dL      
 Creatinine  1.4 mg/dL      
 
ECG shows normal sinus rhythm and left ventricular hypertrophy. Chest x -ray shows an enlarged cardiac silhouette and 
prominent ascending aorta. Which of the following is the mos t appropriate additional diagnostic study at this time?  
 
(A) Arterial brachial index of the lower extremity  
(B) Coronary angiography  
(C) Pulmonary function testing  
(D) Renal ultrasonography  
(E) Transthoracic echocardiography  
  
31. A 39 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 1-year history of progressively worsening shortness of breath. She had 
been generally healthy and says that initially the shortness of breath occurred only after strenuous exercise; however, she 
now becomes fatigued and short of b reath after walking two to three blocks. During the past 2 weeks, she has noted a rapid 
heart rate and light -headedness. She has not had chest pain, lower extremity edema, orthopnea, or any nocturnal symptoms. 
Medical history is remarkable for Graves disease, which was diagnosed 4 years ago and treated with radioactive iodine. 
Current medications include levothyroxine, a daily multivitamin, and an oral contraceptive. She does not smoke cigarettes or 
drink alcoholic beverages. She is 168 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 57 kg (125 lb); BMI is 20 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C 
(98.6°F), pulse is 120/min and irregular, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 110/85 mm Hg. Lungs are clear to 
auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses a rapid rate, a palpable parasternal lift, a norma l S1, and a widely split, prominent 
S2. There is a grade 2/6 systolic murmur heard best over the second intercostal space. Examination of the lower extremities 
discloses trace edema of both feet. The remainder of the physical exam ination discloses no abnormalities. Results of 
laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Na+ 140 mEq/L   Hemoglobin  13.0 g/dL  
 K+ 3.4 mEq/L   Platelet count  155,000/mm3 
 Cl− 100 mEq/L      
 HCO 3− 25 mEq/L      
 Glucose  130 mg/dL      
 TSH  0.58 μU/mL      
 
ECG shows atrial fibrillation with a ventricular rate of 140/min and right axis deviation. Chest x -ray shows clear lung fields, 
no effusion, and prominent pulmonary arteries. Which of the following is the most appropriate additional diagnostic study?  
 
(A) CT scan of the chest  
(B) Echocardiography  
(C) Perfusion lung scan  
(D) Pulmonary function testing  
(E) Ultrasonography of the thyroid  
 
32. A 53 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital for treatment of acute pancreatitis. Temperature is 37.8°C (100.0°F ), pulse is 
90/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 160/90 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% on room air. There is 
tenderness and voluntary guarding in the epigastrium with hypoactive bowel sounds. Physical examination otherwise shows 
no abnormalities. Pneumatic compression devices are in place on both lower extremities. Results of laboratory studies show a 
leukocyte count of 18,700/mm3, serum amylase concentration of 540 U/L, and s erum lipase concentration of 500 U/L 
(N<200). Orders are writte n that the patient is to be given nothing by mouth; intravenous fluids are administered and he is 
given fentanyl intravenously for pain. On the third day in the hospital he is noted to be diaphoretic with labored breathing.  
Temperature now is 38.2°C (100.8°F), pulse is 95/min, respirations are 30/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. There 
are decreased breath sounds at the left lung base. Abdominal examination is unchanged. Which of the foll owing is the most 
appropriate next step in the evaluation of th ese new findings?  
 
(A) Chest x -ray 
(B) Determination of cardiac enzyme activity  
(C) Echocardiography  
(D) Ultrasonography of the chest  
(E) Ventilation -perfusion lung scans  
 
33. A 24 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 3 -month history of intermittent episodes of irritability and insomnia. 
She says, "I'll be fine for 2 to 3 weeks, but then I get so sensitive to anything my husband says. My mood will last for a fe w 
days, then I'm fine again." In addition to insomnia, she has associated headache, fati gue, and overeating during the same 
period. The patient married 3 months ago, and she says her husband has become frustrated with the unpredictability of her 
moods. She works as a phlebotomist. Medical history is unremarkable and she takes no prescribed medications. She does not 
smoke cigarettes or use other substances. She drinks one to two alcoholic beverages weekly. Her last menstrual period was 1 
week ago. BMI is 20  kg/m2. Vital signs are within normal limits and physical examination discloses no abnorm alities. At this 
time, specific additional history should be obtained regarding which of the following?  
 
(A) Carbohydrate intake  
(B) Coital frequency  
(C) Frequency of physical activity  
(D) History of psychological trauma  
(E) Stress level  
(F) Timing of symptoms  
 
34. A 55 -year-old businessman comes to the office for a preemployment examination. The patient's last visit to a physician's 
office was 10  years ago. Examination at that time disclosed no abnormalities. Medical history is unremarkable, and the 
patient  takes no medications. His father died of coronary artery disease at age 66  years. His 80 -year-old mother was once 
treated for "some type of thyroid disease." The patient has a sedentary lifestyle and says, "My energy level isn't what it us ed 
to be." He frequently eats at fast -food restaurants. BMI is 30  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C  (98.6°F), pulse is 82/min, 
respirations are 14/min, and blood pressure is 142/92  mm Hg. Physical examination discloses obesity but no other 
abnormalities. Results of fasting lab oratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Cholesterol     Hematocrit  42% 
  Total  200 mg/dL   WBC  10,500/mm3 
  HDL  34 mg/dL      
  LDL  160 mg/dL      
 Triglycerides  249 mg/dL      
 Creatinine  1.1 mg/dL      
 Glucose  126 mg/dL      
 
Results of serum live r function tests are within the reference ranges. Chest x -ray and ECG disclose no abnormalities. 
Determination of which of the following is the most appropriate next step in evaluation?  
 
(A) Arterial blood gas values  
(B) Hemoglobin A 1c 
(C) 3 -Hour glucose tolerance test  
(D) Serum cortisol concentration  
(E) Serum fructosamine concentration  
 
35. An 8 -year-old girl is brought to the emergency department via ambulance 1 hour after the onset of a generalized tonic -clonic 
seizure. Paramedics noted a pulse of 50/min  followed by a 30 -minute period of asystole. En route, the patient was intubated 
and oxygen therapy and an epinephrine inotropic drip were initiated. On arrival, the patient is unconscious. Temperature is 
36.7°C (98.0°F), pulse is 40/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure cannot be obtained. Oxygen saturation is 99% 
on an F IO2 of 1.0. Physical examination shows mildly dysmorphic facies. Pupils are sluggish in response to light. Lungs are 
clear to ausculta tion with ventilated sounds. Cardiac examin ation discloses a regular rhythm and sinus bradycardia. Abdomen 
is soft and nontender. Neurologic examination discloses paralysis. Distal pulses are 1+ and weak. Echocardiography shows 
global hypokinesis with lateral inferior wall and septal akinesis. Left ventricular function is 20%. The patient is admitted to 
the hospital. Four days later, there has been no improvement in her condition. Life support is withdrawn, and the patient die s. 
At autopsy, examination of the heart shows evidence of an acute myocar dial infarction. Which of the following is the most 
likely underlying cause of this patient's death?  
 
(A) Cardiac conduction abnormality  
(B) Coronary artery plaque rupture  
(C) Increased pulmonary vascular resistance  
(D) Systolic prolapse of mitral valve  
(E) Thickened left ventricular wall and contractile dysfunction  
 
36. A 2-month -old boy is brought to the office because of a 3 -day history of yellow -tinged eyes and skin. He was delivered at 41 
weeks' gestation. Pregnancy and delivery were uncomplicated. A t delivery, length was 54 cm (21.3 in; 90th percentile), 
weight was 4200 g (9 lb 4 oz; 90th percentile), and head circumference was 37 cm (14.6 in; 90th percentile). Apgar scores 
were 9 and 10 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. He has been formula -fed and feeds every 3 to 4 hours without spitting up or 
emesis. He has pale bo wel movements two to three times daily. He receives no medications. Current length is 60 cm (23.6 in; 
75th percentile), weight is 5.7 kg (12 lb 9 oz; 65th percentile), and head circumfere nce is 41 cm (16.1 in; 90th percentile). 
Temperature is 36.9°C (98.4°F), pulse is 130/min and regular, respirations are 40/min, and blood pressure is 105/65 mm Hg. 
Physical examination shows diffuse jaundice and conjunctival icterus. Cardiopulmonary examination discloses no 
abnormalities. The abdomen is soft, and there is m ild hepatomegaly. Results of serum studies are shown:  
 
ALT  265 U/L (N=12 –45) 
AST  280 U/L (N= 22 –63) 
Bilirubin, total  9.1 mg/dL (N<1.0)  
 Direct  6.6 mg/dL (N<0.3)  
Protein, total  6.6 g/dL (N=4.6 –7.9) 
Albumin  4.5 g/dL (N=1.9 –4.9) 
 
Abdominal ultrasonography shows a hypoplastic gallbladder and small common bile duct. Which of the following changes is 
most likely occurring in this patient's l iver at this time?  
 
(A) Bile ductular proliferation  
(B) Centrilobular necrosis  
(C) Increased glycogen stores  
(D) Intranuclear hepatocyte inclusions  
(E) Macrovesicular steatosis  
 
37. A 24 -year-old primigravid woman comes to the clinic for her first prenatal visit. Her last menstrual period was 6 weeks ago. 
Medical history otherwise is unremarkable and her only medication is a prenatal vitamin. Family history is remarkable for 
gestational diabetes mellitus in her maternal aunt. The patient’s vital signs are  within normal limits. Physical examination 
discloses no abnormalities. The patient tells the physician that she would like to be screened for gestational diabetes melli tus 
and wants t o make sure the test will not yield a false -negative result. Several screening tests are available and each test’s 
performance is depicted in the graph shown. Based on these data, which of the following screening tests is the most 
appropriate choice for this patient?  
 
(A) A  
(B) B  
(C) C  
(D) D  
(E) E  
(F) Cannot be determined from  the data provided  
 
38. A 2-year-old girl is brought to the office by her father because of a 2 -day history of a painful mass over the right side of her 
neck that has been increasing in size. The father says she cries when her neck is touched. She also has a 1 -day history of a 
temperature of 38.1°C (100.6°F). The pain and fever have been well controlled with acetaminophen and ibuprofen. The 
patient has no history of serious illness and receives no other medications. Her maternal first cousin had non -Hodgkin 
lymphoma, and her paternal aunt had acute myelogenous leukemia. Examinati on and appropriate testing are done, and the 
patient is diagnosed with lymphadenitis. The physician informs the patient's father of the diagnosis and prescribes 
amoxicillin -clavulanate therapy. The patient's father questions the diagnosis and asks that his daughter be referred to a 
specialist. In addition to expressing empathy, which of the following is the most appropriate physician response?  
 
(A) "I don't think she needs a specialist . What are you worried about?"  
(B) "I know you're worried because of your family history of cancer, but I'm confident in the diagnosis and see no need to 
refer your daughter to a specialist."  
(C) "Tell me what your greatest concerns are."  
(D) "There's no need for your daughter to see a specialist. She'll feel better once she completes this course of antibiotics. " 
(E) "Why do you think that your daughter needs to see a specialist?"  
 
39. A 68 -year-old man is brought to the emergency department by his wife 2 hours after he collapsed into a chair and lost 
consciousness for 30 seconds. The wife says that during the 10 minutes prior to collapsing, the patient had nausea and two 
episodes of vomiting. The patient's medical history is significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and coronary artery 
disease. Medications are metoprolo l, 81 -mg aspirin, and simvastatin. BMI is 28 kg/m2. The patient is awake and fully 
oriented. Temperature is 37.3°C ( 99.2°F), pulse is 104/min, respirations are 24/min, and blood pressure is 163/94 mm Hg. 
Oxygen saturation is 95% on room air. Physical examination discloses drooping of the right side of the patient's face. Muscle  
strength is 3/5 in the left upper extremity and 4/5 in the left lower extremity; strength in the right extremities is normal.  Gait 
is ataxic. The patient has difficulty swallowing wh en trying to drink a cup of water. This patient's symptoms are most 
consistent with injury to the brain in the area supplied by which of the following cerebral arteries?  
 
(A) Anterior  
(B) Internal carotid  
(C) Middle  
(D) Posterior  
(E) Vertebrobasilar  
 
40. A 3-month -old female infant is admitted to the intensive care unit via the emergency department in winter because of 
respiratory distress. The infant first became ill 3 days ago with fever and congestion, but her symptoms have worsened since 
that time. Th is morning she developed pallor, lethargy, cough, copious respiratory secretions, and tachypnea. On arrival at 
the emergency department today, temperature was 37.1°C  (98.8°F), pulse was 124/min, respirations were 80/min, and blood 
pressure was 80/35 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation was 78% on room air; after administration of supplemental oxygen, oxygen 
saturation increased to 94%. The infant's pallor has not subsided, and she is in obvious respiratory distress. Physical 
examination discloses head bobbing, nasal fl aring, and subcostal retractions with each breath. Auscultation of the lungs 
discloses crepitant crackles throughout both lung fields with scattered expiratory wheezing. The remainder of the physical 
examination discloses no abnormalities. The infant is pre pared for intubation based on her clinical status. Results of 
laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Capillary blood gas analysis on oxygen at 2 L/min  Blood    
 PO2 55 mm Hg (N>90)   Hematocrit  30% 
 PCO2 64 mm Hg (N=26.4 –41.2)   Hemoglobin  10.1 g/dL  
 pH 7.22 (N=7.35 –7.45)   WBC  9800/mm3 
 HCO 3− 26 mEq/L    Neutrophils, segmented  18% 
      Lymphocytes  80% 
     Platelet count  220,000/mm3 
 
Chest x -ray is shown. Whi ch of the following is the most likely cause of this infant's illness?  
 
(A) Haemophilus influenzae  
(B) Herpes virus  
(C) Mycoplasma pneumoniae  
(D) Respiratory syncytial virus  
(E) Streptococcus pneumoniae  
  
41. A 44 -year-old woman, who is a known patient, comes to the office for a Pap smear. She says she has felt fine but has noted a 
significant increase in the amount of bleeding with her menstrual periods. She says, "My periods are still regular but they 
now last 10  days instead of  6. It seems the flow is very h eavy for at least 5  of the 10  days. With periods like this, I am 
anxious for menopause." She also reports frequent fatigue and occasional insomnia, but she attributes these symptoms to 
having three teenage d children. She has not had dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, or vaginal discharge. Medical history is 
unremarkable. She does not use any medications and says that she does not like to take pills. Family history is positive for 
colonic polyps. The patient has been separated from her husband for 5  years. She is oc casionally sexually active and always 
uses condoms. Pelvic examination today discloses no abnormalities except for an enlarged uterus, approximately 8  weeks' 
gestational size, which is unchanged from her p revious examination. Ultrasonography 2  years ago disclosed a myomatous 
uterus. Cervical cytology and appropriate cultures are obtained, and complete blood count and serum lipid profile are 
ordered. Which of the following is the most appropriate diagnostic study at this time?  
 
(A) Colposcopy  
(B) Determinati on of serum follicle -stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone concentrations  
(C) Determination of serum prolactin concentration  
(D) Endometrial biopsy  
(E) Hysteroscopy  
 
42. A 58 -year-old man, who is reco vering in the hospital 2  days after an uncomplicated elective right total knee arthroplasty, 
suddenly develops left -sided chest pressure without radiation. The patient was able to ambulate with assistance earlier today. 
Medical history is significant for hypertension, type  2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia , and osteoarthritis. His routine 
medications are enalapril, metoprolol, metformin, and rosuvastatin; since admission his routine medications have been 
continued except for me tformin, which has been replac ed with sliding -scale insulin. Enoxaparin was added for deep venous 
thrombosis prophylaxis. The patient is diaphoretic. Temperature is 37.0°C  (98.6°F), pulse is 100/min, respirations are 
20/min, and blood pressure is 90/60  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 92% on room air. Jugular venous pressure is 15  cm H 2O. 
Lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses an S 3 and a grade  2/6 murmur heard best at the right second 
intercostal space with no radiation. ECG shows sinus tachycardia with 2 -mm ST -segme nt elevations in leads II, III, aVF, V 1, 
and V 2. Intravenous heparin, 325 -mg aspirin, and sublingual nitroglycerin are administered, after which the patient's systolic 
blood pressure immediately decreases to 72  mm Hg. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's 
symptoms?  
 
(A) Acute mi tral regurgitation  
(B) Pericardial tamponade  
(C) Pulmonary embolism  
(D) Right ventricular infarction  
(E) Vasovagal reaction  
 
43. A study is conducted to assess physician use of β -adrenergic blocking agents as treatment for heart failure. A random sample 
of 5000  practicing physicians is selected and surveyed using a 10 -item validated questionnaire. Researchers stratify the 
current prescribing patterns by age of physician, and by location and type of practice. Which of the following most accuratel y 
characteriz es this study design?  
 
(A) Case -control study  
(B) Case series  
(C) Clinical trial  
(D) Cross -sectional study  
(E) Prospective cohort study  
(F) Retrospective cohort study  
 
44. A 28 -year-old man comes to the office because of a 3 -day history of increasing pain on urination. He says, "I'm worried that I 
might have a sexual disease." He has been married for the past 7  years, and he states that his only sexual relations since then 
have been with his wife. Medical history is unremarkable and the patient takes no medi cations. He works at a gardening 
center. Vital signs are within normal limits. Abdominal examination discloses shotty bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathy. 
Examination of th e penis discloses a minimal amount of watery urethral discharge. The testes appear normal. The remainder 
of the physical examination shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate diagnostic study at this 
time?  
 
(A) Gram stain of urethral discharge before and after prostatic massage  
(B) Polymerase chain reaction tes t for Neisseria gonorrhoeae  and Chlamydia trachomatis  
(C) Urinalysis  
(D) Urine culture and sensitivity  
(E) No study, pending reevaluation of sexual history  
 
45. A 72 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 1 -year history of worsening shortness of breath and occasional chest 
tightness and nonproductive cough. Her symptoms have varied in intensity but she has had several periods of worsening 
symptoms during the past 6  months. Medical history is unremarkable and she takes no medications. She has smok ed 
1½ packs of cigarettes daily for the past 50  years; she does not drink alcoholic beverages. She works as a florist. BMI is 
22 kg/m2. Vital signs are within norm al limits. The patient is not in respiratory distress. Auscultation of the lungs discloses a 
prolonged expiratory phase. Cardiac examination discloses no abnormalities. There are no rashes or lesions. Results of 
spirometry done in the office are shown:  
 
  Baseline  Post Bronchodilator  
FEV 1 60% of predicted  65% of predicted  
FVC  82% of predicted  82% of predicted  
FEV 1/FVC ratio  0.55 0.62 
 
Chest x -ray is shown. Which of the following is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Bacterial colonization of large - and medium -sized airways  
(B) Bronchial constriction in response to environmental allergens  
(C) Destruction of alveolar walls leading to enlargement of air spaces  
(D) Diffuse patchy interstitial inflammation and fibrosis  
(E) Eosinophilic infiltration of the pulmonary interstitium  
 
46. Patient Information  
 Age:  16 years  
 Gender: M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
The patient is brought for a well -child visit. The patient’s mother is concerned because his grades have declined from B’s and 
C’s to C’s and D’s during the past year. She says he has been having difficulty concentrating in school and asks the physicia n 
to write a prescription for methylphenidate. Medical history is unremarkable and the patient takes no medications. The mother  
has a history of  major depressive disorder treated with sertraline. The patient’s maternal grandfather, uncle, and cousin have 
alcoh ol use disorder. The physician asks the patient’s mother to leave the examination room. When alone with the physician, 
the patient says he has smoked cannabis at least three times weekly during the past 6 months. He often smokes with friends in  
the morning before school starts. He does not drink alcoholic beverages or take prescription drugs or other substances. 
Physical examination shows no a bnormalities. On mental status examinati on, he reports no depressive symptoms or thoughts 
of harming himself. Urine toxicology screening is positive for Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol. After the examination, the patient 
becomes distressed and says, “You cannot tell my mother about the marijuana. This i s confidential.” Which of the following 
is the most appropriate initial physician response?  
 
(A) “I am worried about your cannabis use, so I recommend that you decrease your cannabis use and see me again in 4 
weeks for a repeat urine test.”  
(B) “I can give you a telephone number for enrollment in a substance abuse treatment program.”  
(C) “Cannabis is bad for your brain, so let me tell you how 12 -step programs can help you stop using cannabis.”  
(D) “Because you are not actually unsafe, this discussion is bet ween the two of us.”  
(E) “We need to discuss how cannabis affects your functioning. How can I help you tell your mother?”  
 
47. A 77 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital because of a 2 -week history of gangrene of the right foot. Three years ago, he 
underwent a left transmetatarsal amputation. During hospitalization, he required intubation and mechanical ventilation for 2 
weeks because of sepsis. He then spent 2 months in an acute rehabilitation facility. Medical history also is remarkable for 
type 2 diabe tes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, and hypertension. His medications are insulin, irbesartan, 
hydrochlorothiazide, and  aspirin. He is widowed, lives alone, and keeps in contact with his two sons. He has a living will, 
and his younger son is designated health care proxy. The patient is alert and fully oriented. Temperature is 38.4°C  (101.1°F), 
pulse is 90/min and regular, respirations are 12/min, and blood pressure is 156/90 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 96% on 
room air. There is a 5 × 6 -cm ulcer with black margins over the plantar surface of the right foot; malodorous, white -green 
exudate; and visible bone in the center of t he ulcer. Popliteal fossa pulses are decreased and posterior tibial pulses are absent 
bilaterally. Antibiotic therapy is begun. The patient is informed that he requires amputation of the right leg below the knee . 
He declines amputation, saying, "I don't ever want to go through what I went through before with my left foot." He is told 
that the potential risks for not proceeding with a mputation are loss of the entire right lower extremity and death. He still 
refuses the procedure. Which of the following is th e most appropriate action for this physician to take?  
 
(A) Abide by the patient's wishes  
(B) Consult the hospital bioethics department  
(C) Obtain consent for amputation from both sons  
(D) Obtain consent for amputation from the courts  
(E) Obtain consent for amputation from the younger son  
(F) Review any additional instructions in the patient’s living will  
  
48. A 63 -year-old woman is ev aluated in the hospital 2 days after she was admitted for management of left sternal chest pain and 
a hypertensive emergency with a blood pressure of 195/110 mm Hg. Workup included CT angiography of the chest, which 
showed no evidence of pulmonary embolism. During the past 6 hours, she has had decreased urine output. A bladder catheter 
yielded only 50 mL of urine during the past 3 hours. She has not had abdominal pain. Medical history is remarkable for 
hypertension, osteoarthritis, and stage 3 chronic kidne y disease with a baseline serum creatinine concentration of 1.7 mg/dL. 
Routine medications are lisinopril, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide. The chest pain she had on admission has resolved. 
Temperature is 37.6°C (99.7°F), pulse is 87/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 147/87 mm Hg. Physical 
examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies obtained on admission and today are shown:  
 
  On Admission  Today  
Serum      
 Na+ 138 mEq/L  141 mEq/L  
 K+ 4.2 mEq/L  5.1 mEq/L  
 Cl− 119 mEq/L  118 mEq/L  
 HCO 3− 23 mEq/L  21 mEq/L  
 Urea nitrogen  26 mg/dL  26 mg/dL  
 Creatinine  1.6 mg/dL  2.4 mg/dL  
 Glucose  106 mg/dL  108 mg/dL  
Urine      
 Specific gravity  – 1.010 (N=1.003 –1.029)  
 Protein  – Negative  
 Blood  – Negative  
 Leukocyte esterase  – Negative  
 WBCs  – 0–3/hpf  
 RBCs  – 0–3/hpf  
 Casts  – Muddy brown  
 
Which of the following factors in this patient's history most increased her risk for developing her current complication?  
 
(A) Bl adder catheterization  
(B) Chronic kidney disease  
(C) Uncontrolled hypertension  
(D) Use of lisinopril  
(E) Volume depletion  
  
49. A randomized placebo -controlled trial is conducted to assess the efficacy of duloxetine in patients with severe rheumatoid 
arthritis who are currently treated with methotrexate. Patients who have six or more joints that are actively inflamed, swoll en, 
or tender to palpation are eligible for inclusion in the study. The primary outcome measure is the number of joints that are no 
longer inflamed after 4  months of treatment. One hundred fifty patients are enrolled and randomized to the duloxetine group 
(n=75) or the placebo group (n=75). The mean number of involve d joints is 12. Data show that patients in the intervention 
group have a mean of seven joints that are no longer inflamed at the end of the trial; patients in the placebo group have a 
mean of two joints that are no longer inflamed at the end of the trial. Results of a two -tailed  t test show P=.02. Which of the 
following is the most  appropriate conclusion to draw regarding the clinical and statistical significance of this study?  
 
 Clinically Significant  Statistically Significant  
(A) No no 
(B) No yes 
(C) Yes no 
(D) Yes yes 
 
50. A physician would like to evaluate the benefit of a new osteoporosis medication in preventing fractures in women aged 
40 to 60 years. A total of 300  women aged 40 to 60  years with osteoporosis documented by DEXA scan are enrolled in the 
study from general gynecology clinics. The patients are equally randomiz ed into two groups. Group  A receives the new 
osteoporosis medication and Group  B receives placebo. The patients are followed for 5  years and bone density is measured 
annually by DEXA scanning. Results show that the bone density of patients who received the study medication is unchanged 
and the bone density in patients who received placebo decreased by 2% ( P=.01). The ph ysician concludes that the new 
medication decreases the risk for fracture in women aged 40 to 60  years. Which of the following is the most a ppropriate 
conclusion to draw from these data?  
 
(A) The impact of the medication on bone density may not correlate with the risk for fracture  
(B) The lack of a change in bone density among patients who received the study medication suggests the presence of a 
confounding variable  
(C) The lack of a change in bone density among the treatment group suggests that the medication regimen is too 
complicated  
(D) The lack of women younger than 40  years of age makes it difficult to evaluate the long -term benefit of tr eatment  
(E) Selection bias is likely because the patients were all selected from general gynecology practices  
 
51. A 15 -year-old boy is brought to the clinic after his father noticed significant swelling of the boy’s chest when he was getting 
dressed 6  hours ago. The patient reports a 3 -month history of gradually worsening left -sided chest pain and swelling, but he 
says he was too embarrassed to tell his parents. He has not had fever, chills, night sweats, loss of appetite, weight loss, o r any 
recent trauma to the chest. Medical history is unremarkable and he takes no medications. The patient is a good student. He 
does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages. Temperature is 36.4°C (97.5°F), pulse is 69/min, respirations are 
14/min, and blood pressure is 115/70 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 100% on room air. Examination of the head, neck, and 
skin discloses no abnormalities. There is a fixed palpable mass measuring approximately 14 × 12 cm in the left chest wall 
that is tender to palpation. The remainde r of the physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Biopsy of this mass is most 
likely to show which of the following?  
 
(A) Acid -fast bacilli  
(B) Gram -positive cocci in clusters  
(C) Infiltrating nests of squamous cells and increased keratin  
(D) Malignant syncytiotrophoblasts and cytotrophoblasts  
(E) Poorly differentiated anaplastic spindle cells  
 
  
52. A 4-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother because of a 2 -kg (5 -lb) weight loss, decreased appetite, and daily 
fatigue during the past 2 months . The mother says the patient's fatigue has limited his physical activity. The patient's medical 
history is remarkable for asthma and seasonal allergies. He has had three asthma exacerbations during the past 2 months that 
have required treatment with oral prednisone. Routine medications are cetirizine, albuterol, and budesonide. The patient is 9 9 
cm (3 f t 3 in; 25th percentile) tall and weighs 14 kg (31 lb; 25th percentile); BMI is 14.3 kg/m2 (10th percentile). 
Temperature is 36.7°C (98.0°F), pulse is 70/mi n, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 80/50 mm Hg. The patient 
appears lethargic. Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Creatinine  0.8 mg/dL (N=0.03 –0.59)   Hemoglobin  12.0 g /dL (N=11.5 –14.5)  
 Na+ 125 mEq/L   WBC  10,000/mm3 
 K+ 4.5 mEq/L   Platelet count  250,000/mm3 
 Cl− 90 mEq/L  Urine    
 HCO 3− 25 mEq/L   Specific gravity  1.025 (N=1.003 –1.029)  
 Glucose  60 mg/dL (N=60 –100)  Protein  Negative  
     Blood  Negative  
     Leukocyt e esterase  Negative  
     Nitrite  Negative  
 
Which of the following is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's current condition?  
 
(A) Decreased activity of 21 -hydroxylase enzyme  
(B) Decreased production of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)  
(C) Decreased production of antidiuretic hormone  
(D) Increased aldosterone production  
(E) Increased insulin production  
 
53. A 38-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of a 4 -hour history of confusion and lethargy. Medical 
history is remarkable for major depressive disorder and a 6 -month history of moderate low back pain that began after she 
lifted heavy boxes during a move. Her medications are fluoxetine daily and acetaminophen with codeine as needed. Family 
history is remarkable for hype rtension and congestive heart failure in her mother. The patient lives with her husband and her 
mother. The patient dri nks two glasses of wine on weekends. On arrival, she is somnolent but arousable to sternal rub. 
Temperature is 36.4°C (97.5°F), pulse is 32/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 74/36 mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 100% on room air. Pupils measure 6 mm in diameter. Examination shows no other abnormalities. Results of 
laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 ALT  180 U/L   Hemoglobin  12 g/dL  
 AST  150 U/L   WBC  12,000/mm3 
 Creatinine  2.5 mg/dL   Platelet count  400,000/mm3 
 Acetaminophen  negative      
Urine toxicology        
 Opiates  positive      
 
An overdose of a drug with which of the following mechanisms of  action is the most likely cause of this patient’s condition?  
 
(A) Agonism of µ -opioid receptors  
(B) Inhibition of aldosterone  
(C) Inhibition of angiotensin -converting enzyme  
(D) Inhibition of β 1-adrenergic receptors  
(E) Inhibition of central nervous syste m neuron serotonin reuptake  
(F) Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis  
(G) Inhibition of renal sodium and chloride resorption  
 
54. A 56 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 1-week history of fever and moderate pain and swelling of the left side 
of her neck. Medical history is remarkable for a 4 -year history of HIV infection. She has declined antiretroviral therapy and 
takes no medications. BMI is 20 kg/m2. Temperature is 38.3°C (100.9°F); other vital signs, including oxygen saturation on 
room air, are within normal limits. Physical examination discloses warmth and moderate tenderness over the swelling shown 
in the photograph. Lungs are clear to auscultation. There is no rash o r hepatosplenomegaly. CD4+ T -lymphocyte count is 
160/mm3, and plasma HIV viral load is 56,000 copies/mL. Pathologic examination of a biopsy specimen of a cervical lymph 
node shows 2+ acid -fast bacilli, and result of a nucleic acid amplification test is positive for a drug -sensitive mycobacterium. 
The infection in this patient mo st likely reached the cervical lymph nodes through which of the following routes?  
 
(A) Direct inoculation via the skin  
(B) Direct tissue invasion from the hilar lymph nodes  
(C) Hematogenous spread from the lungs  
(D) Lymphatic drainage from pharyngeal tissues  
(E) Trafficking of infected lymphocytes  
  
55. Patient Information  
 Age:  64 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
 History  
 Reason for Visit/Chief Concern:  "I can't catch my breath even when I'm sitting still.”  
 
 History of Present Illness:  
 • shortness of breath at rest for 12 hours  
 Past Medical History:  
 • 15-year history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)  
 • inguinal hernia repair 1 week ago  
 Medications:  
 • albuterol  
 Allergies:  
 • no known drug allergies  
 Psychosocial History:  
 • does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages  
 
 Physical Examination  
 
  Temp  Pulse  Resp  BP O2 Sat Ht Wt BMI  
  36.7°C  110/min  24/min  140/80 mm Hg  86% 168 cm  63 kg  23 kg/m2 
  (98.0°F)        on RA  (5 ft 6 in)  (140 lb)    
 
• Appearance: in acute distress; bilateral sternocleidomastoid muscles and intercostal muscles are retracted  
• Neck: jugular venous pressure of 4 cm H 2O above the sternal angle  
• Pulmonary: clear lung fields bilaterally  
• Cardiac: tachycardia; S 1 and S 2, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops  
 
Diagnostic Studies  
 
Plasma    Blood    
 Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP)  100 pg/mL (N<167)   Hematocrit  39% 
 D-dimer  25 μg/mL (N<0.5)   Hemoglobin  13.0 g/dL  
     WBC  9000/mm3 
     Platelet count  325,000/mm3 
 
• chest x -ray: no abnormalities  
 
Question:  Which of the following is the most likely d iagnosis?  
 
(A) COPD exacerbation  
(B) Heart failure  
(C) Pneumonia  
(D) Pneumothorax  
(E) Pulmonary embolism  
  
56. A 20 -year-old primigravid woman comes to the emergency department at 8 weeks' gestation because of a 2 -day history of 
persistent nausea and vomiting with a 0.9 -kg (2 -lb) weight loss during this time. She also notes that she has not voided during 
the past 8 hours. She has not had fever, chills, or contact with anyone known to be ill. Medical history is unremarkable. She  
has taken prenatal vitamins spo radically during her pregnancy, but they worsen her nausea and vomiting. Temperature is 
36.8°C (98.2°F), puls e is 98/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 118/60 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 99% on 
room air. Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Urine specific gravity is greater than 1.030 (N=1.003 –1.029). 
Which of the following laboratory study results is most likely to be abnormal in this patient?  
 
(A) Leukocyte count  
(B) Serum ALT and AST activities  
(C) Serum calcium concentration  
(D) Serum glucose concentration  
(E) Serum urea nitrogen concentration  
(F) No abnormality is likely  
 
57. A 60 -year-old woman, who lives alone, is brought to the emergency department on a Friday evening by her next -door 
neighbor who says the patient has fallen several times during the past several days. An emergency department record from a 
visit 1  year ago for a minor laceration indicates that the patient has Parkinson disease with mild dementia, bipolar disorder, 
and hypertension. Her brother fills her week ly medication organizer, but he is overseas on a business trip for the week. The 
patient is unable to re member which medications she takes and whether there have been any changes recently to her 
medication regimen. The neighbor was unable to locate her pill organizer in her home, and the patient thinks her brother 
keeps her pill bottles at his house to prevent her from inadvertently taking extra doses. She has her brother's address on a card 
in her wallet, along with the names and phone numbers of her prima ry care physician, psychiatrist, and pharmacy. The 
medical record from her visit 1  year ago shows that h er medications included clonazepam, clonidine, and lithium carbonate. 
Doses of each medication are also listed. Attempts to contact the patient's primary care physician and psychiatrist for more 
detailed medication history have been unsuccessful. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial approach to 
managing the patient's medications?  
 
(A) Ask the police to enter the brother's house to locate  the patient's pill bottles  
(B) Contact the patient's pharmacy to obtain information on her current medications  
(C) Observe the patient closely while continuing to try to reach her psychiatrist  
(D) Order the medications as listed in the emergency department records from her previous visit  
(E) Order serum concentrations of the medications listed on the previous emergency department record, then prescribe 
doses of the medications in accordance with those concentrations  
 
58. A 73 -year-old man is admitted to a nursing care facility from the hospital following a prolonged hospitalization for 
pneumonia, septicemia, and respiratory failure. Medical history is remarkable for advanced dementia, Alzheimer type, 
hypertension, and type  2 diabetes mellitus. Current medications include lisinopril, enteric -coated aspirin, and insulin 
glargine. The patient appears frail and is confined to bed. He opens his eyes to voice but is noncommunicative. BMI is 
27 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.2°C  (99.0°F), pulse is 66/min, respirations are 15/min, and  blood pressure is 142/86  mm Hg. 
Oxygen saturation is 97% on room air. Physical examination discloses the finding on the patient's right foot as shown in the 
photograph. The remainder of the examination discloses no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most likely 
underlying cause of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Infection with methicillin -resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
(B) Prolonged immobility  
(C) Pyoderma gangrenosum  
(D) Systemic atheroemboli  
(E) Venous stasis secondary to valvula r incompetence  
 
59. A 78 -year-old woman, who was admitted to the hospital 3  days ago because of worsening renal failure, has become 
increasingly lethargic and nonresponsive. Medical history is significant for type 2  diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and stroke 
1 year ago with residual right -sided weakness and slurred speech. Medications include insulin, aspirin, and furosemide. On 
admission, the patient was alert with mildly slurred speech; she was oriented to person, place, and time. Physical examinatio n 
disclosed decreased mo tor strength and muscle atrophy in the right upper and lower extremities. Results of laboratory studies 
showed a serum urea nitrogen concentration of 82  mg/dL and a creatinine concentration of 6.1  mg/dL. Hemodialysis was 
recommended but the patient declined and expressed an understanding that she would die without the intervention. In 
addition, she requested a do -not-attempt resuscitation (DNAR) order. This was documented in her medical record and her 
code status was changed to DNR. Serum  urea nitrogen conc entration now is 130  mg/dL. She has had no urine output during 
the past 48  hours. The patient's daughter arrives and states that she is named as the surrogate decision maker by her mother's 
advance directive. The daughter insists that hemodialysis be initiated and the code status be changed to full code. Which of 
the following is the most appropriate course of action?  
 
(A) Continue current management; do not initiate hemodialysis  
(B) Initiate hemodialysis and change the code status to ful l code until the patient is more alert  
(C) Initiate hemodialysis but keep the code status as DN AR until the patient is more alert  
(D) Obtain consent from the patient's daughter to initiate all medically indicated interventions  
 
60. An 88 -year-old woman is transferred to the emergency department from the nursing care facility where she resides 4 hours 
after facility staff noted that the patient had rectal bleeding. Medical history is significant for long -standing dementia 
secondary to multiple prior strokes, coronary artery disease, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and chronic renal disease. 
Medicati ons include 81 -mg aspirin, simvastatin, lisinopril, and hydrochlorothiazide. On arrival in the emergency department, 
temperature is 37. 2°C (98.9°F), pulse is 102/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is 105/60 mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 95% on room air. The patient is awake but is not oriented to person, place, or time. She is unable to speak 
coherently and becomes agitated and combative when a physic al examination is attempted. Which of the following is the 
most appropriate initial intervention ? 
 
(A) Administer lorazepam and proceed with physical examination  
(B) Contact the patient's health care proxy to discuss how to proceed  
(C) Place the patient in soft wrist restraints and proceed with physical examination  
(D) Schedule outpatient flexible sigmoidoscopy and discharge the patient  
 
61. A 56 -year-old man comes to the office because of a 3-week history of right arm weakness and drooping of his right eyel id. 
Medical history is significant for hypertension and dyslipidemia, but he takes no medication s. He has smoked one -half pack 
of cigarettes daily for the past 40  years. BMI is 26  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.2°C  (99.0°F), pulse is 82/min, respirations are 
20/min, and blood pressure is 138/74  mm Hg. Physical examination shows ptosis on the right side. The left pupil measures 
5 mm in diameter and the right pupil measures 4  mm in diameter; both pu pils are reactive to light and accommodation. 
Muscle strength is 3/ 5 in the right finger flexors and hand grip. Muscle strength and deep tendon reflexes are otherw ise 
normal. Fingerstick blood glucose concentration is 119  mg/dL. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?  
 
(A) Cerebellar artery aneurysm  
(B) Diabetic oculomotor paresis  
(C) Myasthenia gravis  
(D) Myasthenic (Lambert -Eaton) syndrome  
(E) Pancoast tumor  

A 16 -year-old boy comes to the office because of a 2 -week history of six to eight daily episodes of loose, watery stools. The 
episodes are as sociated with abdominal cramps. His stool has not contained any blood. Medical history is signif icant for recurrent 
sinopulmonary infections typically treated with oral antibiotics. His last infection occurred 1 month ago and resolved within  10 
days. He currently takes no medications and is not sexually active. He has no history of recent travel. He does not smo ke ciga rettes, 
drink alcoholic beverages, or use other substances. BMI is 18 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.7°C (99.9°F), pulse is 100/min, respir ations 
are 18/min, and blood pressure is 110/60 mm Hg. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examinat ion discloses no abnormalities. 
Bowel sounds are normoactive. Abdomen is soft; palpation discloses mild, diffuse tenderness but no masses or 
hepatosplenomegaly. Digital rectal examination discloses brown stool; test of the stool for occult blood is negative. A cultu re of the  
stool is obtained. Acid -fast smear of a stool specimen shows numerous 6 -μm ovoid oocysts.  
 
62. Which of the following is the most likely causal agent of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Cryptosporidium parvum  
(B) Entamoeba histolytica  
(C) Norovirus  
(D) Salmonel la typhi  
(E) Shigella flexneri  
 
63. Appropriate treatment is prescribed for the patient's gastrointestinal infection. It is noted that this is the patient's sixt h illness 
during the past 18 months. In determining whether this patient has an immune deficiency, which of the following is the most 
appropriate diagnostic study to obtain at this time?  
 
(A) CD4+ T -lymphocyte count  
(B) CD8+ T -lymphocyte count  
(C) Serum complement concentrations  
(D) Serum interferon gamma assay  
(E) Serum quantitative immunoglobulin c oncentrations  
 
END OF SET  
 Items #62 –63 are part of a sequential item set. In the actual examination environment, you will not be able to view the second 
item until you click "Proceed to Next Item." After navigating to the second item, you will not be able to add or change an 
answer to the first item.  
 
64. Physicians at an ambulatory clinic would like to develop a rapid screening test to diagnose influenza virus infection after t he 
clinic reported 20% more cases of influenza virus infection this year than any other year. Patients at the clinic currently w ait 
almost 90 minutes for results of a nasopharyngeal swab test to determine if they have influenza virus infection. The 
physicians develop two tests, Test A and Test B, which take only 10 minutes to yield results. The receive r operator 
characteristic (ROC) c urves for the two tests are shown. Based on these data, which of the following is the most appropriate 
conclusion to draw about Test A compared with Test B?  
 
(A) In the high false positive rate range, Test A is more accurate than Test B  
(B) In the high sensitivity range, Test A is more accurate than Test B  
(C) In the low false positive rate range, Test A is more accurate than Test B  
(D) In the low sensitivity range, Test B is more accurate than Test A  
 
65. A 5-year-old boy is brought to the office by his parents because of a 2 -month history of progressive difficulty climbing stairs, 
playing on playground equipment, and rising from a chair. He has mild cognitive delay for which he is receiving academic 
assistance, and he has had delayed milestones such as walking. He otherwise is healthy. He has no siblings. Family history is  
unremarkable; neither of his parents has any siblings. The patient's vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examinati on 
shows hi p girdle proximal  muscle weakness and increased circumference of the calves bilaterally. The patient has to use his 
arms to stand up. Serum creatine kinase activity is 25,000  U/L (N=20 –200). Genetic testing is ordered. Which of the 
following mutations is most likely to be identified in this patient?  
 
(A) Frameshift insertion in the gene encoding alpha -1 (III) collagen  
(B) Large deletion in the gene encoding dystrophin  
(C) Missense mutation in the gene encoding fibrillin 1  
(D) Splice -site mutation in the gene encoding spectr in 
(E) Translocation involving the gene encoding myosin I  
 
66. Researchers are attempting to recruit patients from the primary care clinic of a large urban hospital to take part in a minim al-
risk research study. When initiating the informed consent process, it is observed that African American patients tend to 
exhibit a greater reluctance to take part in the study. During interim review, data confirm low enrollment totals among 
African Americans in the community. Which of the following is the best course of action to take?  
 
(A) Ask the institutional review board to waive the requirement for informed consent because it is deterring potential 
participants  
(B) Convene a representative focus group of potential participants to ask questions regarding reluctance to enroll  
(C) Focus recruitment efforts on White patients who are more likely to enroll and acknowledge this study limitation in the 
publication  
(D) Recognize this as an unavoidable impediment and continue the recruitment practices in the same manner  
(E) Req uire all patients to take part in the study if they wish to receive care in this clinic to ensure a representative sample  
 
67. A 54 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 10 -month history of moderate to severe upper abdominal pain, nausea 
after eating, and a "burning" sensation in her throat and chest. This is her third visit for these symptoms during the past 3  
months. She says that the recommended diet modification and weight loss regimen have not relieved her symptoms, but she 
later acknowledges that her diet changes have been minimal and she has not been exercising regularly. She takes over -the-
counter omeprazole daily  but says she is unsure how many tablets she takes. She says her symptoms have caused her to use 
all of her sick days at work and she is "miserable." She says she is convinced that she has Barrett esophagus. BMI is 29 
kg/m2. Vital signs are within normal limits. She appears anxious and preoccupied with her symptoms. Physical examination 
shows no abnormalities. On mental status examin ation, she is irritable but is otherwise communicative and fully oriented. 
Cognition is intact. She uses medical terms with ea se. An upper gastrointestinal series 1 month ago showed no abnormalities. 
The patient requests an endoscopy because she read about them while researching her symptoms on the Internet. Which of 
the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Ask the patient if she would like to see a specialist  
(B) Ask the patient to describe her goals for and expectations of treat ment  
(C) Ask the patient to further explain why she thinks she has Barrett esophagus  
(D) Discuss why the patient has not made the suggested changes to her diet and exercise  
(E) Encourage the patient to describe how she feels about having an unresolved medical condition  
  
68. A 64 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 5 -month history of pain in her right calf on exertion. The pain occurs 
when she walks and resolves within 5 minutes of rest. Initially, the pain developed after the patient walked three  blocks, but 
now it occurs after she walks only one block. She has no other symptoms. Medical history is remarkable for hypertension, 
hyperlipidemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Medications are metformin, lisinopril, and atorvastatin. She does not smoke 
cigarettes, drink  alcoholic beverages, or use any other substances. BMI is 31 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 
80/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 120/80 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 95% on room air. Ankle brachial 
index is  0.6 on the right and 0.8 on the left. Physical examination discloses a left carotid bruit, a right femoral bruit, and 
decreased pedal pulses bilaterally. Laboratory studies show a hemoglobin A 1c of 7.0%. The results of additional laboratory 
studies, including urinalysis, are within the reference ranges. The most appropriate pharmacotherapy for this patient targets 
which of the following?  
 
(A) Cyclooxygenase  
(B) Factor Xa  
(C) Nitric oxide synthase  
(D) Phosphodiesterase  
(E) Prostacyclin synthase  
 
The pharmaceutical advertisement on t he following pages is for use with items #69 and 70 on page 56. 
 
An 18 -year-old woman comes to the university health center requesting medication to improve her concentration. She says she 
needs to maintain a high grade -point average so that she will be accepted into graduate school. She graduated in the top 10% of her 
class at a se lective preparatory high school. She is taking six classes this semester and says that she is having trouble keeping up 
with her workload. Several of her friends take medication for attention -deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and h ave told her that 
these medications help them study and perform better on examinations. The patient says she took some of her roommate’s 
Essepro  XL and was able to study for hours without being distracted. She says Essepro  XL has the added benefit of suppressing her 
appetite, which might help her lose weight. Medical history is remarkable for asthma and seasonal allergies since early childhood. 
Medications are albuterol inhaler as needed, fluticasone inhaler twice daily, and oral 24 -hour loratadine 10  mg wi th 
pseudoephedrine once daily. BMI is 30  kg/m2. Blood pressure is 130/84  mm Hg; other vital signs are within normal limits. The 
lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses a midsystolic click. The patient has an advertisement for Esse pro XL, 
as shown, and as ks the physician if she could be prescribed this medication to improve her concentration and to lose weight. The 
physician decides not to prescribe Essepro  XL for this patient.  
 
69. Based on the advertisement, which of the following is the  most appropriate rationale for this decision?  
 
(A) Essepro XL is contraindicated in patients who also are taking stimulant medications  
(B) Essepro XL is likely to exacerbate the patient’s heart condition  
(C) Essepro XL is not indicated for this patient  
(D) The patient is like ly to share Essepro  XL with her friends  
(E) There is no evidence that Essepro  XL will help the patient lose weight  
 
70. Based on the advertisement, which of the following is the greatest advantage of Essepro  XL over methylphenidate  XL? 
 
(A) Decreased likelihood of disrupted sleep patterns  
(B) Decreased potential for dependency  
(C) Decreased rates of nausea and anorexia  
(D) Increased academic performance  
(E) Increased availability of safety data  
(F) Increased duration of action  
 
END OF SET  
 
71. A 29 -year-old woman comes to the office for counseling. She learned that she is HIV -positive 1 month ago and she believes 
that she most likely contracted the infection approximately 6 months ago. Laboratory studies ordered in preparation for this 
visit show a CD4+ T -lymphocyte count of 800/mm3 and undetectable serum HIV RNA levels. She has no symptoms of 
AIDS. She has never been pregnant, but she is considering pregnancy and wants to know her risk for transmitting HIV to 
future children. Which of the follow ing is the mo st accurate statement?  
 
(A) As a subgroup, newborns have the fastest rate of increase in HIV infection  
(B) Intrapartum transmission accounts for less than 50% of neonatal HIV infection  
(C) Maternal viral load is the best predictor of p erinatal transmission of HIV infection  
(D) The risk for perinatal transmission is higher among women who conceive within 1 year of initial HIV infection  
(E) Route of delivery does not influence the risk for perinatal transmission of HIV infection  
 Items #69 –70 refer to the pharmaceutical advertisement displayed on the previous page s. 
 
 72. A 50 -year-old woman who has been your patient for the past 3 years comes to the office because of heartburn and increased 
belching and bloating after meals for the past month. Antacids provide little relief. The symptoms tend to occur after eating . 
She is currentl y asymptomatic. She has never had an operation. The patient identifies as African American. Physical 
examination shows mild scleral icterus and a 4 -cm mass in the epigastric area. Which of the following is the most appropriate 
initial diagnostic st udy?  
 
(A) CT scan of the abdomen  
(B) Determination of serum amylase and lipase concentrations  
(C) Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography  
(D) HIDA scan  
(E) Upper gastrointestinal barium study  
 
73. A 50 -year-old woman comes to the office because of the gradual  onset of pain and swelling of both knees and distal 
interphalangeal joints of the hands during the past 12 weeks. The pain is exacerbated with movement and is accompanied by 
morning stiffness that usually resolves within 15 to 20 minutes. Recently  the joint pain has occurred at night and has 
restricted her activity. Ibuprofen has provided moderate relief of her symptoms. Medical history is remarkable for type 2 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and obesity. Additional medications include glipizide, m etformi n, and hydrochlorothiazide. 
She is 168  cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 105  kg (230 lb); BMI is 37  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 70/min, 
respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 140/90  mm Hg. Examination of the hands shows bon y enlargements of the 
distal and proximal interphalangeal joints with mild tenderness to the interphalangeal joints. Examination of both knees 
shows bony enlargement with tenderness at the joint margin, limited range of motion, and mild joint effusions. Res ults of  
laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Rheumatoid factor  Nonreactive   WBC  8000/mm3 
 Uric acid  6 mg/dL      
 
X-rays of the knees are most likely to show which of the following?  
 
(A) Bone demineralization and erosions  
(B) Soft tissue swelling, sc lerotic joint margins, and large cystic erosions  
(C) Soft tissue swelling with no evidence of cartilage or bone destruction  
(D) Subchondral sclerosis of bone and asymmetric joint space narrowing  
(E) No abnormal findings  
 
74. A 17 -year-old high school football player is brought to the emergency department by his parents 1  hour after sustaining an 
injury to his upper back during a game. He says another player struck him in the back with his helmet. Immediately 
following the incident, the patient noticed weakne ss of his lower extremities. On arrival, temperature is 36.7°C (98.0°F), 
pulse is 110/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is 130/80  mm Hg. Physical examination discloses point 
tenderness at the midthoracic spine. Muscle strength is 3/5 in the lower extremities. Sensation is diminished to pain and 
vibration below the lower chest margins. De ep tendon reflexes are absent in the lower extremities. Babinski sign is absent 
bilaterally. MRI of the spine is most likely to show which of the following?  
 
(A) Anterior spinal artery territory ischemia  
(B) Contusion of the thoracic spinal cord  
(C) Lateral T7 disc herniation with nerve root compression  
(D) Thoracic cord hemisection  
(E) Traumatic syrinx  
 
  
75. Patient Information  
 Age:  19 years  
 Gender:  M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  hospital  
 
The patient who is a college student is admitted because of fever, chills, intense headache, nonproductive cough, and 
generalized weakness for the past 3 days. Medical history is unremarkable and  he takes no medications. He does not use any 
substances. He works as a greenskeeper at a local golf course in western North Carolina. On admission, he appears acutely ill . 
He is somnolent but arousab le. Temperature is 39.0°C (102.2°F), pulse is 106/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood 
pressure is 90/56 mm Hg. Ox ygen saturation is 98% on room air. Examination of the skin shows an erythematous, macular 
rash with superimposed petechiae on the palms, soles, legs, and thighs. Funduscopic examination disclose s no abnormalities. 
Neck is supple with no adenopathy. The remainder of the physical examination, including neurologic examination, discloses 
no abnormalities. Intravenous access is established. Lumba r puncture for examination of cerebrospinal fluid discloses an 
opening pressure of 210 mm H 2O; the cerebrospinal flui d is slightly turbid. ECG shows nonspecific ST -segment and T -wave 
abnormalities. Portable chest x -ray shows no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Urea nitrogen  23 mg/dL   Hemoglobin  11.5 g/dL  
 Creatinine  1.3 mg/dL   WBC  11,600/mm3 
 Glucose  99 mg/dL    Neutrophils, segmented  75% 
 Na+ 134 mEq/L    Neutrophils, bands  15% 
 K+ 4.5 mEq/L    Lymphocytes  10% 
 Cl− 104 mEq/L   Platelet count  43,000/mm3 
 HCO 3− 22 mEq/L   INR 1.3 
Cerebrospinal fluid        
 Cell count  20 cells/mm3     
 Glucose  70 mg/dL      
 Lymphocytes  95%     
 Proteins  75 mg/dL      
 Gram stain  Negative      
 India ink preparation  Negative      
 
Appropriate therapy is initiated and the pati ent's condition improves during the next week. Cultures of the blood and 
cerebrospinal fluid are negative. Which of the following is the most likely source of this patient's illness?  
 
(A) Inhaling contaminated droplets  
(B) Insecticide from the golf course  
(C) Kissing  
(D) Mosquito bite  
(E) Tick bite  
  
76. Patient Information  
 Age:  30 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  emergency department (ED)  
 
The patient is brought by police because of a 2 -hour history of worsening abdominal pain, diarrhea, and joint pain. The 
symptoms began while the patient was incarcerated in the local jail, where she was placed 12 hours ago after she was arrested  
for shoplifting. Her medical history is unknown. On arrival at the ED, the patient is irritable and sleepy; she yawns frequen tly. 
She is diaphoretic. BMI is 18  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.1°C  (98.7°F), pulse is 110/min, respirations are 30/min, and blood 
pressure is 14 5/92 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% on room air. Pupils are moderately di lated. Bowel sounds are 
hyperactive. The remainder of the physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of urine toxicology screening in 
this patient will most likely be positive for which of the following?  
 
(A) Cannabinoids  
(B) Cocaine  
(C) Methamphetamine  
(D) Opioids  
 
77. A 39 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 6 -week history of malaise, fatigue, and a 4.5 -kg (10 -lb) weight loss. 
She has not had difficulty sleeping or depressed mood. Medical history is unremarkable and she takes no m edications. She 
does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages. BMI is 28 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.2°C (99.0°F), pulse is 110/min, 
respirations are 12/min, and blood pressure is 140/90 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses a fine tremor. Which of the 
following additional sign s or symptoms would be most consistent with the underlying diagnosis in this patient?  
 
(A) Constipation  
(B) Delayed relaxation reflex  
(C) Heat intolerance  
(D) Tenting of the skin  
 
 
78. Patient Information  
 Age:  25 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  White, self -identified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
The patient who works as an attorney at a large law firm presents because of a 1 -week history of pain in and around her left 
upper jaw. She is unable to open her mouth wide, and when she attempts to do so she feels a snapping sensation in the joint in 
front of her ear at the jawbone. She has not sustained any recent trauma. She was recently diagnosed with major depressive 
disorder, for which she has been taking paroxetine. She remembers being advised in the past by her dentist to consider braces  
for her tee th, but she never wore them because they were unaffordable. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable, and she 
takes no other medications. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are  20/min, and blood pressure is 
104/60 mm Hg. Physical examination discloses point tenderness at the left temporomandibular joint. Examination of the ears 
shows good light reflex bilaterally on the tympanic membranes. After the patient removes chewing gum from her mouth, 
examination of the oral cavity shows  pink buccal mucosa and no evidence of dental abscess or trauma. The patient should be 
advised to do which of the following?  
 
(A) Avoid chewing gum and eating hard or chewy foods  
(B) Consult an orthodontist  
(C) Cradle the phone receiver be tween shoulder and jaw  
(D) Open and close her jaw widely three time daily  
(E) Take oxycodone as needed for pain  
 
79. A 68 -year-old woman was admitted to the intensive care unit 36 hours ago after becoming obtunded due to respiratory 
distress. She is now intubated and chest x -ray is consistent with congestive heart failure and pneumonia. She has a long 
history of morbid obesity, chronic bronchitis, schizoaffective disorder, and cigarette smoking. She is reported to have been 
relatively stable on haloperidol, benztropine, and lithium carbonate. Her present medication regimen includes 
acetaminophen, methylprednisolone, cipro floxacin, haloperidol, benztropine, and lithium carbonate. She also requires 
intravenous lorazepam every 2 hours for agitation that caused her to fight the ventilator. Vital signs now show a spike in 
temperature to 38.9°C (102.0°F). Physical examination discloses lead pipe rigidity. Serum creatine kinase concentration 
is 846 U/L and serum lithium concentration is  0.86 mEq/L (therapeutic=0.5 –1.5). Arterial blood gas analysis while breathing 
40% oxygen is  shown:  
 
PO2 68 mm Hg  
PCO2 36 mm Hg  
pH 7.46 
O2 saturation  91% 
 
At this time it is most important to discontinue which of the following medications?  
 
(A) Benztropine  
(B) Ciprofloxacin  
(C) Haloperidol  
(D) Lorazepam  
(E) Methylprednisolone  
  
80. A 35 -year-old woman comes to the office because she noticed a lump in her neck 2  months ago. She has not had pain, 
difficulty swallowing, or change in her voice. She is a native of Germany and immigrated to th e United States 10  years ago. 
Medical history is significant for Hodgkin lymphoma at age 12  years treated with mantle radiation. Hypothyroidism was 
diagnosed at age 25  years. Her only routine medication is levothyroxine. The patient has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily 
for the past 10  years. She app ears well. BMI is 26  kg/m2. Temperature is 36.6°C  (97.8°F), pulse is 82/min, respirations are 
18/min, and blood pressure is 108/66  mm Hg. Physical examination discloses a 2.5 -cm (1-in) nodule in the right lobe  of the 
thyroid gland. There is also a 1 -cm (0.4-in) nodule in the left thyroid lobe. Results of serum thyroid function tests show a 
thyroid -stimulating hormone concentration of 0.6  μU/mL and a free thyroxine concentration of 1.7  ng/dL (N=0.7 –1.8). 
Which of the following factors in this patient is most  indicative of a poor prognosis?  
 
(A) Cigarette smoking  
(B) Hyperthyroidism  
(C) Iodine deficiency  
(D) Presence of multiple nodules  
(E) Radiation exposure  
 
81. A 38 -year-old man with type  1 diabetes mellitus and hemochromatosis comes to the office for a routine health maintenance 
examination. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable. His conditions have been well managed with therapeutic 
phlebotomy and insulin therapy. He currently feels well. BMI is 24  kg/m2. Temperature is 36.7°C  (98.1°F), pulse is 88/min, 
respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 130/84  mm Hg. The patient's skin is not discolored and sclerae are white. 
Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies are s hown: 
 
Serum    Blood    
 ALT  72 U/L   Hematocrit  30% 
 AST  64 U/L   Hemoglobin  9.8 g/dL  
 Bilirubin, total  0.7 mg/dL   Hemoglobin A 1c 6.6%  
 Glucose, fasting  134 mg/dL      
 
This patient should be counseled that he is at increased risk for mortality if he consum es which of the following foods?  
 
(A) Bean sprouts  
(B) Berries  
(C) Raw oysters  
(D) Undercooked eggs  
  
82. A 24 -year-old woman with asthma comes to the office because of a 2 -week history of mild shortness of breath and a 
nonproductive cough that occurs occasionally during the day and frequently at night. During this time, she has required use 
of her albuterol inhaler twice daily. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable and her only other medication is an oral 
contraceptive. The patient drinks three  to four  alcoholic beverages weekly and does not smoke cigarettes. She appears alert 
and comfortable. BMI is 25  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.2°C  (99.0°F), pulse is 88/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood 
pressure is 114/72  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 97% on room air. FEV 1 is 70% of predicted. Physical examination discloses 
no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in pharmacotherapy?  
 
(A) Add inhaled fluticasone  
(B) Add inhaled tiotropium  
(C) Add oral azithromycin  
(D) Add oral monteluka st 
(E) Increase the dosage of the inhaled albuterol to four times daily  
(F) Prescribe a 5 -day course of oral prednisone  
 
83. A 36 -year-old woman is admitted to the hospital because of a 1 -day history of sore throat and fever with temperatures to 
40.0°C  (104.0°F). She has not had cough, dyspnea, headache, neck stiffness, rash, diarrhea, or pain. Medical history is 
significant for Graves disease diagnosed by her primary care physician 3 weeks ago. At that time, the patient had a goiter an d 
reported generalized weakness and hair loss. Therapy with propranolol and methimazole was initiated, and the patient’s 
symptoms had been improvi ng. BMI is 20 kg/m2. Temperature is 39.9°C  (103.8°F), pulse is 123/min, respirations are 
20/min, and blood pressure is 108/68  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 98% on room air. Physical examination shows 
pharyngeal erythema without exudate and a diffuse and symmetric goiter. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac 
examination discloses a grade 2/6 systolic murmur at the left upper sternal bo rder. There is no hepatosplenomegaly. Results 
of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Blood    Urine    
 Hematocrit  35%  Protein  1+ 
 Hemoglobin  11.4 g/dL   WBCs  Negative  
 WBC  3300/mm3     
  Neutrophils, segmented  2%     
  Neutrophils, bands  1%     
  Eosinophi ls 4%     
  Basophils  1%     
  Lymphocytes  78%     
  Monocytes  14%     
 MCV  82 μm3     
 Platelet count  221,000/mm3     
 
Blood cultures are ordered and methimazole is discontinued. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?  
 
(A) Antinuc lear antibody test  
(B) Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy  
(C) Cefepime therapy  
(D) Filgrastim therapy  
(E) HIV antibody test  
(F) Propylthiouracil therapy  
  
84. A 27 -year-old woman, gravida 1, para 1, has a meeting with her physician and a lactation consultant in the hospital 1 day 
after uncomplicated spontaneous vaginal delivery of a 3572 -g (7-lb 14 -oz) female newborn at 38 weeks' gestation. Pregnancy 
was uncomplicated. The patient has good social support. Counseling is provided. The patient has begun to produc e 
colostrum, and the newborn latches well. The patient says she is interested in breast -feeding and is convinced that breast milk 
will be best for her baby,  but she is worried about how long she will be able to breast -feed because she plans to return to 
work as soon as possible. Her job involves packing boxes in an assembly line, and she often must work for multiple hours 
without a break. Her employer expects her back to work in 4 weeks. Which of the following is the most appropriate 
recommendation?  
 
(A) Ad vise continuing breast -feeding now and discussing with her employer a schedule that will allow her to pump during 
work hours  
(B) Encourage the patient to focus on breast -feeding and find a new job once her infant is ready to discontinue breast -
feeding  
(C) Recommend that the patient not breast -feed her infant  
(D) Remind the patient that she needs to concern herself with what is best for her baby's care  
(E) Suggest using both breast -feeding and bottle -feeding so the transition to work is easier for the baby  
 
85. A 14 -year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by a school official 1 hour after he was sent to the school nurse for 
behaving strangely in class and then becoming sleepy and difficult to arouse. School records indicate that the patient has no  
health problems and takes no medications. On arrival at the emergency department, the patient is lethargic but has no signs o f 
trauma. Temperature is 37.3°C  (99.1°F), pulse is 62/min, respirations are 10/min, and blood pressure is 106/62 mm Hg. Pulse 
oxim etry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of 96% . Pupils measure 2 mm in diameter and are minimally reactive to 
light. Cardiopulmonary examination discloses clear lungs and normal cardiac rhythm. Bowel sounds are decreased. The 
patient moans and moves all extremities to painful stimuli. The remainder of the physical examination discloses no 
abnormalities. The most likely cause of this patient's condition is abuse of which of the following medications?  
 
(A) Dextromethorphan  
(B) Diazepam  
(C) Diphenhydramine  
(D) Methylphenidate  
(E) Phenylephrine  
 
86. Patient Information  
 Age:  70 years  
 Gender:  M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
The patient who has coronary artery disease presents for an initial visit to establish care. He had a myocardial infarction 2  
years ago but is now able to walk 2 miles daily with no chest discomfort. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable. 
Medications include atorvastatin, metoprolol, and an 81 -mg aspirin daily. He smoked two packs of cigarettes dai ly for 40 
years but quit at the time of his myocardial infarction. He drinks one glass of red wine daily and has never used other 
substances. Temperature is 3 7.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 82/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 150/95 mm Hg. 
Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate additional pharmacotherapy 
for this patient?  
 
(A) Amlodipine  
(B) Clonidine  
(C) Hydrochlorothiazide  
(D) Lisinopril  
(E) No additional pharmacotherapy is indicated  
 
87. A 27-year-old woman, who underwent resection of a grade  2 astrocytoma in her right parietal lobe 6 weeks ago, is evaluated 
in the outpatient rehabilitation facility where she has been receiving ongoing care. Medical history otherwise is 
unremarkable. Her only medication is levetiracetam. The patient is right -hand dominant. She works as a graphic designer. 
BMI is 22 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C  (98.6°F), pulse is 72/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 110/60 mm 
Hg. Cranial nerves are intact. Muscle strength is 4/5 in the left upper and lower extremities and 5/5 in the right upper and 
lower extremities. There is mild spasticity at the left knee and ankle. Sensation to pinprick and proprioception are intact, but 
the patient has left extinction to double simultaneous stimulation, both tactile and visual. She is alert and oriented to per son, 
place, and time. Her short -term memory is intact, and she can spell "world" backward. Speech is fluent. Gait shows mild 
circumduction; she uses a 4 -point cane.  Finger -nose testing discloses no ataxia. In considering this patient's ability to resume 
work, focused evaluation to determine which of the following is most likely to be helpful?  
 
(A) Capacity to articulate ideas and thoughts  
(B) Degree of control over her left hand when typing on a keyboard  
(C) Effect of hemi -inattention on her visual spatial skills  
(D) Overall ability to ambulate  
  
88. A 9-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother for evaluation of a 6 -month history of abnormal movements that th e 
mother describes as sudden, repetitive jerks often involving his shoulders and arms. She also has witnessed multiple episodes  
of repetitive eye blinking and throat clearing. There is no aura prior to the events. Initially, the episodes occurred 
approximately once weekly, but now they seem to occur daily and are interfering with his daily activities. His school 
performance has been acce ptable, but his teacher says he is easily distracted and has difficulty sitting through class without 
fidgeting. Medical h istory is unremarkable, and he takes no medications. The patient is 133 cm (4 ft 4 in; 50th percentile) tall 
and weighs 29 kg (64 lb; 50th percentile). Vital signs are within normal limits. The patient is restless but cooperative. Mus cle 
tone, deep tendon reflexes, and gait are normal; there is no tremor. The remainder of the neurologic examination discloses no  
focal abnormalities. Durin g the examination, the patient experiences an episode of brief repetitive eye blinking; there is no 
change in consciousnes s during or after the episode. Based on these findings, this patient is most likely to develop which of 
the following?  
 
(A) Hepatolenticular degeneration (Wilson disease)  
(B) Huntington disease  
(C) Intellectual disability  
(D) Obsessive -compulsive disorder  
(E) Seizure disorder  

89. A 32 -year-old woman is brought to the emergency department by a friend because of a 2 -hour history of nausea,  vomiting, 
sweating, and malaise. On arrival, the patient appears depressed. She says she took "several handfuls" of extra -strength 
acetaminophen and drank a pint of vodka 3 hours ago in an attempt to hurt herself. Medical history is significant for type 1 
diabetes mellitus, major depressive disorder, and seizure disorder. Medications are insulin lispro, insulin glargine, fluoxet ine, 
and phenytoin. S he also takes three extra -strength acetaminophen tablets three to four times weekly for headaches or other 
muscle aches and pains. Vital signs are within normal limits. Palpation of the abdomen discloses mild right upper quadrant 
tenderness. The remainder of the examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 ALT  160 U/L   PT 12 seconds  
 AST  420 U/L    INR 1.0 
 Amylase  70 U/L      
 Bilirubin, total  1.1 mg/dL      
 Urea nitrogen  10 mg/dL     
 Creatinine  1.0 mg/dL      
 Na+ 132 mEq/L      
 K+ 3.2 mEq/L      
 Cl− 108 mEq/L      
 HCO 3− 18 mEq/L      
 Acetaminophen  250 µg/mL      
 Alcohol  327 mg/dL      
 HBcAb  Positive      
 HBsAb  Positive      
 HBsAg  Negative      
 Hepatitis C antibody  Negative      
 
Which of the following factors in this patient's history most strongly indicates a poor prognosis?  
 
(A) Chronic hepatitis B infection  
(B) Concurrent alcohol consumption  
(C) Fluoxetine therapy  
(D) Type 1 diabetes mellitus  
 
An 11 -year-old girl is brought to the emergency department by her parents because of a 1 -day history of shortness of breath, fatigue, 
excessive thirst, and frequent urination. The parents say the onset of these symptoms coincided with an upper respiratory tra ct 
infection. Medical history is significant for type  1 diabetes mellitus. The patient's only medication is insulin. BMI is 23 kg/m2 (93rd 
percentile). Temperature is 36.0°C  (96.8°F), pulse is 110/min, respirations are 28/min, and blood pressure i s 95/6 5 mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 97% on room air. The patient appears moderately dehydrated and drowsy, but she is able to speak easily when 
prompted and communicates in a lucid fashion. Her respiratory pattern is rapid and deep, and she is using accessory muscles o f 
respir ation. Results of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Arterial blood gas analysis on room air  
 Acetone  45 mg/dL (N<10)   PO2 95 mm Hg  
 Glucose  693 mg/dL   PCO2 26 mm Hg  
     PH 7.16 
     Base excess  −16 mEq/L  
 
90. In addition to volume expansion, which of the following is the most appropriate intervention at this time?  
 
(A) Bolus of intravenous sodium bicarbonate  
(B) Continuous infusion of intravenous short -acting insulin  
(C) Intermittent boluses of intravenous short -acting insulin  
(D) Subcutaneous administration of half short -acting and half intermediate -acting insulin  
(E) Subcutaneous administration of intermediate -acting insulin  
 
91. An infusion of intravenous short -acting insulin is begun. Four hours later, laboratory studies are obtained, and re sults are 
shown:  
 
Serum  Arterial blood gas analysis on room air  
 Acetone  30 mg/dL (N<10)   pH 7.24 
 Glucose  385 mg/dL      
 
Shortly thereafter, the patient develops a headache and then suddenly loses consciousness. Physical examination shows 
increased mus cle to ne and extensor posturing of the extremities in response to painful stimuli. Which of the following is the 
most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Administration of sodium bicarbonate  
(B) CT scan of the head  
(C) EEG  
(D) Fosphenytoin therapy  
(E) Mannitol therapy  
 
END OF SET  
 
 Items #90 –91 are part of a sequential item set. In the actual examination environment, you will not be able to view the second 
item until you click "Proceed to Next Item." After navigating to the second item, you will not be able to add or change an 
answer to the first item.  
 
  
92. A 67 -year-old woman with osteopenia comes to the office because of a 6 -month history of increasingly severe, constant pain 
in her left hip and thigh. Before her symptoms began, she walked 1 mile daily. She now walks with  a lim p and must use a 
walker. Medical history also is remarkable for hypertension. Medications are hydrochlorothiazide, ibuprofen, and calcium 
and vitamin D supplementation. Her DEXA scan T -score was –1.8 1 year ago. Vital signs are within normal limits. 
Examination of the left lower extrem ity produces mild groin tenderness. Passive range of motion of the left hip is limited by 
pain. Serum studies show a calcium concentration of 8.6 mg/dL, intact parathyroid hormone concentration of 55 pg/mL 
(N=10 –65), and  25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration of 30 ng/mL (N>20). X -rays of the left hip and femur show cortical 
thickening of the subtrochanteric region. MRI of the left hip and femur shows moderate edema of the bone marrow and soft 
tissue in the subtrochanteric region; there is cortical discontinuity  laterally. Which of the following is the most appropriate 
next step in management?  
 
(A) Bisphosphonate therapy  
(B) Brace stabilization  
(C) Calcitonin therapy  
(D) Cast immobilization  
(E) Intra -articular dexamethasone inj ection  
(F) Surgical fixation  
(G) Observation only  
 
93. Patient Information  
 Age:  65 years  
 Gender:  M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  hospital  
 
The patient is admitted because of a 4 -week history of progressive shortness of breath on exertion and swelling of the lower 
extremities. The shortness of breath also awakens him at night. Medical history is remarkable for hypertension and type 2 
diabetes mellitus. Medications are amlodipine, metformin, and daily aspirin. He does not sm oke ci garettes, drink alcohol ic 
beverages , or use other substances. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 90/min and regular, respirations are 20/min, and 
blood pressure is 142/64 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 92% on room air. He appears mildly uncomfortable. Jugular venous 
pressure is 12 cm H 2O. Auscultation discloses inspiratory crackles to the mid lung fields bilaterally. Cardiac examination 
discloses an S 3 heard at the base. Abdominal examination shows no abnormalities. There is bilateral pitting edema  to the 
knee s. Res ults of laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Creatine kinase  35 U/L   Hematocrit  34% 
 Urea nitrogen  18 mg/dL   Hemoglobin  11.4 g/dL  
 Creatinine  1.3 mg/dL      
 Na+ 133 mEq/L      
 K+ 4.9 mEq/L      
 Cl− 102 mEq/L      
 HCO 3− 19 mEq/L      
 Trop onin I  <0.4     
 
ECG is shown. Administration of which of the following is contraindicated in this patient?  
 
(A) Digoxin  
(B) Furosemide  
(C) Lisinopril  
(D) Metoprolol  
(E) Spironolactone  
 
94. A 62 -year-old man comes to the office for a routine follow -up examination 1 year after undergoing hemicolectomy for stage 
III colon cancer. Postoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen concentration was 1 ng/mL (N≤3.0) at that time. The patient 
had completed a 6 -month course of adjuvant chemotherapy. Toda y, he says h e feels well and reports no symptoms. Medical 
history otherwise is unremarkable and he currently takes no medications. Vital signs are within normal limits. Physical 
examination shows only a wel l-healed midline surgical scar. Colonoscopy shows no lesions, polyps, or recurrence of cancer 
at the anastomosis site. Serum carcinoembryonic antigen concentration is 20 ng/mL. PET/CT scans of the chest, abdomen, 
and pelvis show a new 1 -cm pulmonary nodule with irregular borders and increased uptake in th e left lower lung lo be; the 
nodule does not involve the pleura or other major structures, and there is no pleural effusion. Which of the following is the  
most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Bronchoscopy  
(B) Chemotherapy  
(C) Discussion of palliat ive care  
(D) Radiation therapy  
(E) Resection of the nodule  
 
95. A 64 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital for evaluation of anemia and constant, nonradiating epigastric abdominal pain 
that began 3 days ago. He rates the pain as a 4 on a 10 -point scale a nd says it partially  improves after eating. He has not had 
nausea or vomiting. Medical history is remarkable for hypercholesterolemia and hypothyroidism. Medications are 
amlodipine and levothyroxine. He has no allergies. He drinks alcoholic beverages only occasionally  and does not smoke 
cigarettes. Temperature is 36.7 °C (98.0°F), pulse is 90/min, respirations are 14/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. 
Cardiopulmonary examination discloses no abnormalities. Abdominal examination discloses mild tendernes s in the 
epigastrium  with no guarding or rebound. Test of the stool for occult blood is positive. Hemoglobin concentration is 8.0 
g/dL. Upper endoscopy shows a nonbleeding ulcer; biopsy of the ulcer is done, and results show a polymorphic infiltrate of 
small cells wit h reactive follicles that stain positive for B lymp hocyte markers CD19 and CD20. In addition to prescribing 
omeprazole therapy, which of the following is the most appropriate initial treatment?  
 
(A) Clarithromycin and amoxicillin therapy  
(B) Cy clophosphamide and m etronidazole therapy  
(C) Radiation therapy  
(D) Rituximab therapy  
(E) Surgical resection  
 
96. A 19 -year-old man comes to the urgent care center because of severe lower abdominal and scrotal pain after he was elbowed 
in the groin 1 hour ag o during a b asketball game. The pain decreased 15 minutes after the incident and he continued to play 
in the game. Approximately 20 minutes later, the pain resumed with increased intensity, causing him to vomit. He has 
otherwise felt well. Medical history is unremarkable and he takes no medications. Family history is unremarkable. 
Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pul se is 100/min and regular, respirations are 14/min, and blood pressure is 150/88 mm Hg. 
The patient is writhing in pain. Bowel sounds are normoa ctive; the a bdomen is soft with no tenderness. Genitourinary 
examination discloses an exquisitely tender left testicle that is situated in the transverse plane. The patient is fearful th at this 
injury may cause him to be infertile. At this time it is most appropriate to infor m the patient of which of the following?  
 
(A) His fertility will be adversely affected because of loss of functional testicular tissue  
(B) His fertility will most likely be unaffected following immediate reversal of the condition  
(C) Hi s fertility will not be adversely affected with conservative management  
(D) Whether his fertility will be affected cannot be predicted without further evaluation and testing  
 
97. A 39 -year-old woman at 32 weeks’ gestation returns to the office for a prenata l visit. She previou sly used intravenous heroin 
and has been in a methadone maintenance program for the past 2 years, including throughout this pregnancy. She admits to 
cigarette use and occasional cocaine and amphetamine use during the early part of this pregnancy. I n the past 2 months she 
has tested negative for any drug use other than methadone. You have discussed with her the probability of a prolonged 
hospitalization of this neonate if there are signs of withdrawal after delivery. At this visit, she te lls you that she wis hes to 
breast -feed her baby. Which of the following is the most appropriate response?  
 
(A) "Because of your high risk for HIV infection, breast -feeding is unsafe for your baby."  
(B) "Because of your past history of drug abuse, breast -feeding is uns afe for your baby."  
(C) "Because you have participated in a methadone maintenance program, I encourage you to breast -feed."  
(D) "Many drugs enter the breast milk and can cause problems for the baby. Let's develop a plan to give your baby safe 
breast milk."  
(E) "Me thadone, cocaine, and amphetamines do not enter the breast milk in sufficient amounts to harm the baby, so breast -
feeding can be permitted."  
 
98. A 25 -year-old nulligravid woman comes to the office for an annual health maintenance examin ation. She h as a history of 
polycystic ovarian syndrome and has been taking an oral contraceptive to regulate her menses. Medical history is otherwise 
unremarkable. Family history is remarkable for obesity. She is 168 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 67 kg ( 148 lb); BMI is 
24 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 82/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 126/76  mm Hg. 
Physical examination shows mi ld facial hirsutism that appears to have remained unchanged since her last visit 1 year ago . 
The remain der of the physical examination shows no abnormalities. The patient should be counseled that she is at greatest 
risk for acquiring which of the following conditions?  
 
(A) Diabetes mellitus  
(B) Hypertension  
(C) Hypothyroidism  
(D) Nephrotic syndr ome 
(E) Uterine canc er 
 
99. An 11 -month -old infant is brought to the office by his mother because of a 24 -hour history of progressive swelling and 
blistering of his left index finger and thumb. Two days ago, he developed fever and runny nose. Yesterday h is mother no ted 
sores on his left thumb and index finger, which have become larger and more blistered today. He has no known history of 
trauma. No one at home has similar lesions or history of skin problems. The infant attends day care 5  days weekly. Medic al 
history is significant fo r recurrent diaper rashes and upper respiratory tract infections. Temperature is 38.8°C (101.8°F), pulse 
is 140/min, and respirations are 32/min. He appears nontoxic but fussy. Physical examination discloses rhinorrhea with clea r 
mucus and several small erythematous papulovesicular lesions near his mouth. The left hand appears as shown. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy?  
 
(A) Oral acyclovir  
(B) Oral cephalexin  
(C) Oral clindamycin  
(D) Topical mupiroci n 
(E) Topical silver sulfadi azine  
 
100. A 57 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 2-week history of intermittent palpitations. The palpitations are worse 
the morning of this visit and are associated with a "queasy feeling" in her upper abdomen. Her symptoms beg an after she 
started training for a 5 -km race at the urging of her partner and have been increasing in intensity after each training session. 
Medical history is significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with metformin. Family history is significant for myocardial 
infarcti on in her father. She has smoked one -half pack of ciga rettes daily for the past 30 years; she does not drink alcoholic 
beverages. She is 152  cm (5 ft) tall and weighs 64  kg (141 lb); BMI is 28  kg/m2. Temperature is 37.2°C  (98.9°F), p ulse is 
98/min and irregular, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 92/64  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% on room air. 
Auscultation of the lungs discloses bilateral basilar crackles. Cardiac examination discloses a normal S 1 and S 2, an S4, and a 
grade 2/6 systolic murmu r. The remainder of the physical examination discloses  no abnormalities. ECG obtained today 
shows ST -segment elevation in the anterior leads and Q waves in leads II, III, and aVF; rhythm strip shows intermittent 
premature  ventricular  contractions. Which of the following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy at this time?  
 
(A) Intramuscular morphine sulfate  
(B) Oral aspirin  
(C) Oral diltiazem  
(D) Subcutaneous enoxaparin  
(E) Sublingual nitroglycerin  
 
101. A 49 -year-old woman  is brought to the emergency depart ment by her husband because of a 1 -hour history of generalized 
weakness, dizziness, and palpitations. The patient says she has felt like she is going to faint. She also reports a 3 -day history 
of an upper respiratory infe ction, for w hich she has taken over -the-counter cold remedies. Medical history is remarkable for 
hyperthyroidism diagnosed 1 month ago, for which she was given prescriptions for several medications, none of which she 
has filled. She is 1 60 cm (5  ft 3 in) tall and weighs 54  kg (119 lb); BMI is 21 kg/m2. She appears anxious. Temperature is 
38.9°C (102.0°F), pulse is 168/min and irregular, respirations are 26/min, and blood pressure is 124/56 mm Hg supine. 
Oxygen saturation is 97% on room air. Physical examina tion shows m ild muscle wasting, mild pharyngeal erythema without 
exudate, and watery nasal discharge. Examination of the neck discloses a goiter, an audible bruit, and no jugular venous 
distention. Lungs are clear to auscultation with go od breath sounds. C ardiac examination shows an irregul arly irregular 
rhythm and a grade 3/6 systolic ejection murmur heard best along the left sternal border. The abdomen is soft with no 
tenderness. A tremor of the upper extremities is noted. There is no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema to any of the extremities. 
Neurologic examination shows no abnormalities. ECG shows atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response. The patient 
is placed on a cardiac monitor and is given a 1 L bolus of isotonic saline. W hich of the followi ng is the most appropriate next 
step? 
 
(A) Cardioversion  
(B) Intravenous dexamethasone  
(C) Intravenous diltiazem  
(D) Intravenous propranolol  
(E) Oral potassium iodide  
  
102. Patient Information  
 Age:  20 years  
 Gender:  M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  unspe cified  
 Site of Care:  student health center  
 
The patient presents because of a 3 -day history of burning on urination and penile discharge. He says he had unprotected 
sexual intercourse 1  week ago with a woman he met at a night club. He describes his usual state of health as excellent. 
Medic al history is unremarkable. He takes no medications except for vitamin supplements and protein powder that he buys at 
the local health food store. He drinks two to three beers on weekends and smokes cannabis approximately  once monthl y. He 
is 185  cm (6 ft 1 in) tall and weighs 82  kg (180 lb); BMI is 24  kg/m2. The patient appears embarrassed and uncomfortable. 
Temperature is 37.3°C (99.2°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are 14/min, and blood pressure is 120/70  mm Hg. Physic al 
examination discloses a circumci sed penis with a whitish -yellow discharge at the urethral orifice. There are no penile lesions 
or ulcerations. Rapid HIV antibody test is negative. A swab of the urethral discharge is obtained and sent for culture. 
Antibi otic therapy  is initiated for empiric treatme nt of chlamydia and gonorrhea, and the patient is notified that he will be 
contacted with the final results. Assuming that the patient's symptoms improve with the prescribed pharmacotherapy, which 
of the followi ng is the most appropriate follow -up plan?  
 
(A) Consult with the patient's parents before determining appropriate follow up  
(B) Schedule follow -up examination in 1 week  
(C) Schedule HIV serology testing in 3 months  
(D) No specific follow up is necessary  
 
103. A 36 -year-old woman comes to the emergency department because of abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting that began 
suddenly 12  hours ago and has worsened since that time. The patient rates the pain as 10  on a 10 -point scale and describes it 
as stabbing and radiating to her back. She has not had hematemesis. Her last bowel movement was yesterday. She has never 
had a similar episode in the past. Medical history is unremarkable and she takes no medications. She drinks one to two 
alcoholic beverages weekly, usua lly on weeke nds. Temperature is 37.4°C  (99.3°F), pulse is 116/min, respirations are 20/min, 
and blood pressure is 118/88  mm Hg. The patient appears uncomfortable. The conjunctivae are anicteric. Abdomen is mildly 
distended with guarding and tenderness to p alpation. No telangiectasias are noted. Results of serum laboratory studies are 
shown:  
 
Alkaline phosphatase  196 U/L  
Bilirubin, total  1.8 mg/dL  
Triglycerides  275 mg/dL  
Lipase  846 U/L  
Calcium  8.9 mg/dL  
Urea nitrogen  16 mg/dL  
Creatinine  1.8 mg/dL  
Na+ 144 mEq/L  
K+ 3.5 mEq/L  
Cl− 100 mEq/L  
HCO 3− 29 mEq/L  
Glucose  125 mg/dL  
 
In addition to beginning intravenous fluids, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) CT scan of the abdomen with contrast  
(B) Fenofibrate thera py 
(C) Imipe nem cilastatin therapy  
(D) Insulin therapy  
(E) Ultrasonography of the right upper abdominal quadrant  
  
104. A 4-month -old male infant is brought to the office by his parents because of a 1 -day history of lethargy and constipation. The 
parents say the infant has not been breast -feeding well during the past 2 weeks and has not had a bowel movement in 2 days. 
He has not had fever and has not been exposed to anyone known to be ill. He was born at term to a 26 -year-old woman, 
gravida 2, para 1, via unco mplicated sp ontaneous vagin al delivery. Birth weight was 3000 g (6 lb 10 oz; 25th percentile). 
Medical history is unr emarkable and he receives no medications. Vaccinations are up -to-date. Family history is 
unremarkable. The patient is 59 cm (23 in; <3rd percentile) long and weighs 5.5 kg (12 lb; <3rd percentile); head 
circumference is 41 cm (16.1 in; 25th percentile). Temperature is 37.3°C (99.1°F), pulse is 116/min, respirations are 16/min,  
and blood pressure is 88/54 mm Hg. The patient is listless upon ex amination. P hysical examina tion discloses weakness of the 
upper and lower extremities bilaterally against active resi stance. Abdominal and rectal examinations disclose no 
abnormalities. Results of fasting laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Urine    
 Calcium  9.0 mg /dL  Specific g ravity  1.012 (N<1.010)  
 Urea nitrogen  8 mg/dL   pH 5.5 (N=4.5−7.8)  
 Creatinine  0.4 mg/dL (N=0.03 –0.5)  Glucose  2+ 
 Na+ 133 mEq/L      
 K+ 2.7 mEq/L      
 Cl− 105 mEq/L      
 HCO 3− 11 mEq/L      
 Glucose  84 mg/dL (N=50 –90)     
 Phosphorus  2.5 mg/dL (N=3. 8–8.2)     
 
Which of the following is most likely to develop in this patient?  
 
(A) Congestive heart failure  
(B) Cushing syndrome  
(C) Osteomalacia  
(D) Type 1 diabetes mellitus  
  
105. Patient Information  
 Age: 44 years  
 Gender: F, se lf-identified  
 Ethnicity: unspecified  
 Site of Care: office  
 
 History  
 Reason for Visit/Chief Concern: "My neck and shoulder pain have come back again."  
  
 History of Present Illness:  
 • 5-year history of myofascial pain syndrome  
 • 12-month history of right -sided ne ck and shoulder  pain; has n ot sustained any trauma  
 • rates current neck and right shoulder pain as 6/10  
 • daily stretching of the neck and right shoulder and naproxen therapy have not improved pain  
• 6 months ago, received local anesthetic tr igger point injection in the right upper trapezius muscle from another physician 
with complete resolution of pain for 4 months  
• 48 hours after trigger point injection, developed severe itching and redness at injection site; symptoms resolved 
spontaneously  
• informed she is allergic  to local an esthetics but was not told which one was used in the injection  
Past Medical History:  
• 5-year history of major depressive disorder  
• 10-year history of hypothyroidism  
Medications:  
• citalopram  
• levothyroxine  
• nap roxen  
 Allergies:  
 • local anesthetics  
 Family History:  
 • mother: alive with fibromyalgia  
 Psychosocial History:  
 • does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages  
 
 Physical Examination  
 
Temp  Pulse  Resp  BP O2 Sat Ht Wt BMI  
36.9°C  77/min  15/min  117/67 mm Hg 98% 163 cm  70 kg 27 kg/m2 
(98.4°F)        on RA  (5 ft 4 in)  (155 lb)    
 
• Pulmonary: clear to auscultation  
• Cardiac: regular rhythm; normal S 1 and S 2; no murmurs, rubs, or gallops  
• Musculoskeletal: palpation of right upper trapezius muscl e discloses a trigger point within a taut band of muscle that 
reproduces patient's neck and shoulder pain  
 
Question:  The patient requests a repeat trigger point injection. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in 
management?  
 
(A) Administer the inje ction using phe nol as the a nesthetic  
(B) Administer the injection using prilocaine as the anesthetic  
(C) Administer the injection using tetracaine as the anesthetic  
(D) Pretreat the patient with loratadine, then administer the injection using a ny local anesthetic  
(E) Refer the patient to an allergist for further evaluation  
 
106. Patient Information  
 Age:  62 years  
 Gender:  M, self -identified  
 Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of Care:  hospital, post anesthesia care unit (PACU)  
 
 History  
 Reason for Admission/Chief C oncern:  postope rative knee pain 4 hours after undergoing total right knee arthroplasty  
 
 History of Present Illness:  
 • 2-year history of severe right knee pain  
 • patient is extubated postoperatively  
 • rates right knee pain 9/10  
 • knee pain difficult to control because administration of opioid medications causes sleepiness and episodes of apnea  
 Past Medical History:  
 • hypertension  
 • gastroesophageal reflux disease  
 • hypercholesterolemia  
 • hypothyroidism  
 • osteoarthritis  
Medications:    
• losartan  home, continued  on admissio n 
• hydrochlorothiazide  home, continued on admission  
• omeprazole  home, continued on admission  
• levothyroxine  home, continued on admission  
• hydromorphone  initiated in PACU  
• ketorolac  initiated in PACU  
• aceta minophen  initiated in PACU  
 Allergies:  
 • no known drug allergies  
 Psychosocial Hi story:  
 • drinks two cocktails daily  
 • does not smoke cigarettes or use any other substances  
 • retired school -teacher  
 • lives with his wife  
 
 Physical Examination  
 
Temp  Pulse  Resp  BP O2 Sat Ht Wt BMI  
36.0°C  88/min 
awake  12/min 
awake  139/82 mm Hg 
awake  96% on 4LNC 
awake  178 cm  124 kg  39 kg/m2 
(96.8°F)  82/min 
sleeping  2/min 
sleeping  142/86 mm Hg 
sleeping  86% on 4LNC 
sleeping  (5 ft 10 
in) (273 lb)    
 
• Appearance: sleepy,  but arousable to voice  
• Pulmonary: decreased breath sounds at bases, otherwise cle ar to auscultation  
• Cardiac: regular rhythm  
• Extremities: dressing, wrap, and brace immobilization applied to right knee  
• Neurologic: fully oriented  
 
 
 
 This item continues on the following page.  
 
  
Question:  Which of the fo llowing is the most appropriate next step to decrease this patient’s risk for postoperative respiratory 
events?  
 
(A) Administration of oxygen via high flow nasal cannula  
(B) Bupivacaine femoral nerve block  
(C) Chest wall i mpedance monitoring  
(D) Continuous pulse oximetry  
(E) Hydromorphone via patient -controlled analgesia  
 
 
107. Patient Information  
 Age:  52 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity:  Lebanese American, self -identified  
 Site of Care:  office  
 
The patient presents because of pain in her left wrist foll owing a fall 1 week ago. She is a data entry clerk and you have been 
treating her for carpal tunnel syndrome for the past year. Physical examination today discloses little swelling, but there is  pain 
with at tempts to flex or exte nd the wrist and fingers. X -rays are shown. Which of the following is the most ap propriate 
management?  
 
(A) Apply an elastic wrist bandage  
(B) Apply a plaster cast that incorporates the thumb  
(C) Apply a plastic wrist splint  
(D) Begin daily aspirin treatment and do no t restrict use of the hand  
(E) Refer her to an occupational therapist  
 
108. A 65 -year-old woman who has been your patient for 8 years is being prepared for discharge from the hospital after receiving 
a prosthetic hip following a hip fracture. Postoperatively she received low -dose heparin therapy, and she has been abl e to 
move about  with a walker. She has had diabetes mellitus for 12  years, which has been controlled with glipizide. Her 
hemoglobin  A1c 3 months ago was 7.6%. Other than the diabetes her health has been excellent and her w eight has not 
changed in several years. She took  estrogen for 4  years for hot flushes but discontinued it because of vaginal bleeding. She 
does not smoke cigarettes. She drinks a glass of wine or a bottle of beer daily. She lives with her 62 -year-old sister, who has 
severe osteoarthritis b ut is able to p repare meals and assist her with activities of daily living. During this hospitalization the 
patient's blood glucose concentrations have ranged from 220 mg/dL to 280 mg/dL, for which she is being treated wit h 
insulin. She will co ntinue insulin therapy at home. At this time it is most appropriate to arrange for home services to do 
which of the following?  
 
(A) Administer daily insulin  
(B) Assist the patient in building her upper -body strength  
(C) Assist the patient in strengthening her lower ex tremity muscles  
(D) Ensure that the patient follows the diabetic diet prescribed for her  
(E) Measure the patient's blood glucose concentration daily  
 
A 32 -year-old man comes to the office because of mild eye irrit ation, runny nose, nas al congestion, and postnasal drip that have 
occurred since he moved to his current apartment 10 months ago. He also reports occasional shortness of breath with wheezing and 
loss of his sense of smell. He has not had fever or cough. Medical history is unremarkable and he takes no med ications. Family 
history is significant for nasal polyps in several family members who also have similar symptoms. The patient's vital sig ns are  
within normal  limits . Physical examination discloses mildly injected conjunc tivae, pale and swolle n nasal turbinates, and a slightly 
injected pharynx. Lungs are clear to auscultation. The remainder of the examination discloses no abnormalities.  
 
109. Which of the following factors in this patient's history most strongly predicts development of a more serious condition?  
 
(A) Associated shortness of breath and wheezing  
(B) Family history of similar symptoms  
(C) Loss of sense of smell  
(D) Perennial nature of symptoms  
 
110. The patient is counseled regarding allergen avoidance, including the use of HEPA air filter s, a mattress cover, and frequent vacuuming with dust removal. He returns to the office 1 month later with continued wheezing and shortness of breath. Which of the following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy at this time?  
 
(A) Inhaled fluticasone  
(B) Nasal cromo lyn 
(C) Nasal oxymetazoline  
(D) Oral fexofenadine  
END OF SET  Items #109 –110 are part of a sequential item set. In the actual examination environment, you will not be able to view the second item until you click "Proceed to Next Item." After navigating to the second item, you will not be able to add or change an answer to the first item.  
 
111. A 24 -year-old woman comes to the office because she had a positive home pregnancy test 2  days ago. Urine pregnancy test in 
the office today is positive. Ph ysical examination fin dings are consistent with a 14 -week gestation. Ultrasonography shows a 
twin pregnancy with two female fetuses. This is her first pregnancy, and she says she is concerned because she has a family 
history of an eye disease in which family members lose their vision begin ning in their 20s. Testing of her vision today 
discloses no ab norma lities. The patient's pedigree is shown; the patient is identified as IV,  2. Which of the following  is the 
most appropriate conclusion about the inheritanc e of this disorder?  
 
(A) It is an autosomal dominant disorder  
(B) It is a chromosomal aneuploidy  
(C) It is indeterminant  
(D) It is an X -linked dominant condition  
(E) It is an X -linked recessive condition  
  
112. An 84 -year-old man, who has resided in a nursing care facility for the past 5  years, is being evaluated at the facility because a 
nurse discover ed a sacral ulcer while bathing the patient 2  hours ago. The patient is not in pain. Medical history is significant 
for type  2 diabetes mellitus, congestive hea rt failure, chronic ob structive pulmonary disease, and peripheral vascular disease. 
Medications are insulin, furosemide, metoprolol, lisinopril, albuterol and ipratropium metered -dose inhalers, and 81 -mg 
aspirin. The patient is unable to walk and spends the majority of the day in a manual wheelchair that he self -propels slowly 
with hi s feet. BMI is 1 9 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C  (98.6°F), pulse is 62/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure 
is 115/69  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 94% on oxygen at 2 L /min via nasal cannula . The patient appears frail. Lungs are 
clear to auscultation; breath sounds are decreased. Cardiac examination discloses no abnormalities. There is a 3  × 3 × 0.2-cm 
stage  II ulcer on the patient’s sacrum with yellowish exudate at the base and no surrounding erythema. Examination of the 
extremities shows edema to the calves bilaterally. Results of recent laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Urea nitrogen  10 mg/dL   Hematocrit  33% 
 Creatinine  1.1 mg/dL   Hemoglobin  10.8 mg/dL  
 Na+ 138 mEq/L   WBC  11,500/mm3 
 K+ 4.0 mEq/L    Neutr ophils  60% 
 Cl− 100 mEq/L    Eosinophils  2% 
 HCO 3− 24 mEq/L    Lymphocytes  33% 
 Cholesterol      Monocytes  5% 
  Total 105 mg/dL   Platelet count  135,000/mm3 
 
Which of the following treatment modalities is most likely to have the greate st effect on wo und h ealing in this patient?  
 
(A) Hypercaloric diet  
(B) Pressure relief  
(C) Silver sulfadiazine  
(D) Wound debridement  
 
113. A 36 -year-old woman is referred to the office for evaluation of a fasting serum total cholesterol concentration of 249  mg/dL. 
She has a family history of early coronary artery disease (CAD) and her father died suddenly at age 46  years of myocardial 
infarction. She tells you that she has never had chest pain. She is not currently sexually active and has no children. The 
patient works as a n adv ertising executive. She claims that her high -stress lifestyle makes it impossible for her to eat regular 
meals or to  follow a special diet, and she usually eats fast food. She exercises two or three times a week for about 20  minutes 
on a treadmill. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for the past 20  years. Her only medication is acetaminophen for 
tension headaches. She is 165  cm (5 ft 5 in) tall and weighs 76  kg (167 lb); BMI is 28  kg/m2. Vital signs today are within 
normal limit s. Physical exa minat ion discloses no abnormalities except for mild obesity. Institution of which of the following 
is the most essential step in the prevention of CAD in this patient?  
 
(A) Biofeedback -based stress reduction program  
(B) More rigorous and consistent exercise program  
(C) Smoking cessation program  
(D) Strict low -calorie diet  
(E) Strict low -fat diet  
  
114. A 21 -year-old woman is brought to the emergency department by her parents after she told them she consumed an entire 
bottle of an unspecified pai n medication 3  hours  ago in a suicide attempt. The patient reports shortness of breath and ringing 
in her ears. Medical history is signi ficant for major depressive disorder. Her only routine medication is escitalopram and she 
has no allergies. Temperature is 37.5°C  (99.5°F), pulse is 96/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 
98/60  mm Hg. Oxygen saturat ion is 92% on room air. The patient appears tired and thin but is not in acute distress. She is 
slow to respond to questions and has difficulty f ollowing instru ction s. Skin is warm and dry. Examination of tympanic 
membranes discloses no abnormalities. Auscultation of the lungs dis closes bilateral basilar crackles. Cardiac examination 
discloses no abnormalities. Abdomen is soft and nontender. The remainder of the physical examination discloses no 
abnormalities. Results of arterial blood gas analysis on room air are shown:  
 
PO2 88 mm Hg  
PCO2 26 mm Hg  
pH 7.32 
 
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Administratio n of lipid emul sion  
(B) Administration of N-acetylcysteine  
(C) Administration of sodium bicarbonate  
(D) Endotracheal intubation  
(E) Sup portive care only  
 
115. A 38 -year-old woman comes to the office for an annual health maintenance examination. She has been healthy and her last 
cervical cytology 3 years ago was normal. The patient has been married for the past 15 years and the couple is monogamous. 
Today, the patient is afebrile. Pulse is 82/min and blood pressure is 130/82 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no 
abnormalitie s. Ce rvical cytology and human papillomavirus (HPV) testing are obtained. If results from the most recent 
cervical cytolo gy and HPV test are no rmal, at which of the following times should this patient have her next cervical 
cytology?  
 
(A) At the time of menopause  
(B) In 1 year  
(C) In 5 years  
(D) Only if she gets pregnant  
(E) The patient does not need another cervical cytology  
  
116. A 21 -year-old man, who is a member of the US  Air Force, comes to the emergency department because of a 2 -day histo ry of 
shortness  of breath on exertion and when lying down, as well as fever, chills, and swelling of his legs. Medical history is 
unrema rkable and he takes no medications. Temperature is 38.1°C  (100.5°F), pulse is 97/min, respirations are 20/min, and 
blood pressure is 140/91  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 92% on room air. The patient is dyspneic but able to speak in full 
sentences. Jugular venous p ressure is 14  cm H2O. Auscultation of the lungs discloses bilateral basilar crackles. Cardiac 
examination disclose s a regular rhy thm w ith an S 3 gallop but no murmur. Abdominal examination discloses no abnormalities. 
There is 1+ pitting edema of the l ower extremities. Results of laboratory studies show a serum B -type natriuretic peptide 
concentration of 2000  pg/mL (N<100) and a leukocyte count of 13,000/mm3. Results of serum chemistry profile and 
remainder of complete blood count are within the reference ranges. ECG shows no abnormalities except for nonspecific ST -
segment changes. Echocardiography shows a dilated left v entricle with a n eje ction fraction of 0.40 and no pericardial 
effusion. Which of the following is the most likely long -term outcome for this patient?  
 
(A) Complete recovery  
(B) Mild diastolic dysfunction  
(C) Pulmonary embolism  
(D) Recurrent pericarditis  
(E) Severe systolic heart failure requiring cardiac transplant  
 
117. A 31 -year-old woman who is in the US Air Force comes to the office because of a 1 -day history of fever, sore throat, body 
aches, muscle weakness, and dehydration. Medical history is remarkabl e for systemic lupus  erythematosus. She has no 
known allergies. Current medications are calcium, hydroxychloroquine, iron, and vitamin D . She has a 5 -year-old son who 
currently has a febrile illness and a rash on his hands and feet. The patient's BMI is 24  kg/m2. Temperature is 
38.3°C  (101.0°F), pulse is 96/min, respira tions are 20/min, and blood pressure is 115/77  mm Hg. Physical examination 
shows an erythematous throat with vesicles on both tonsils. There is no ulceration or coating of the tongue. There i s bilateral 
cervical  lymphadenopathy. The lungs are clear. A rapid streptococcal test result is negative. Which of the following is the 
most appropriate treatment for this patient?  
 
(A) Acyclovir  
(B) Amoxicillin  
(C) Amoxicillin -clavulanic acid  
(D) Ibuprofen  
(E) Prednisone  
 
118. A 45 -year-old woman comes to the office because of a 6 -month history of progressively slurred speech. During this time, she 
has bitten her tongue frequently and has had difficulty swallowing food. She also has felt clumsy performing nor mal 
activities.  She has not had changes in vision, sensory symptoms, or bladder dysfunction. Five years ago, she underwent 
cervical fusi on for degenerative disc disease. She takes no medications. Vital signs are within normal limits. The patient is 
unable to protrude her ton gue. There is deep furrowing and bilateral fasciculations of the tongue. She is dysarthric. When the 
patient is asked to say, “Ahh,” there is symmetric but incomplete elevation of the palate. Muscle tone is normal throughout. 
Muscle stre ngth is 4/5 in the right upper extremity, and there are fasciculations in the right deltoid and biceps; muscle 
strength is 5/5 elsewhere . Deep tendon reflexes are 1+ in the right biceps and brachioradialis and 3+ in the triceps and right 
lower extremity. Electromyography and  nerve conduction studies show motor denervation in the tongue and right 
extremities. Which of the following factors in this patient’s history most negatively impacts her life expectancy?  
 
(A) Age  
(B) Bulbar weakness  
(C) Cervical fusion operation  
(D) F asciculations  
(E) Gender  

119. A 64 -year-old woman comes to the clinic because of a 2 -year history of constipation. She ini tially had bowel movements 
every other day and passed hard stools. During the past 4  months, she has had three bowel movements weekly. Fibe r 
supplementation during the past 3  months has not increased the frequency of bowel movements. She has not had abdominal 
pain, fever, weight loss, or blood in the stool. She has hypertension, and her only medication is lisinopril. Colono scopy 
5 years a go and cervical cytology 3  years ago showed no abnormalities. There is no family history of colon cancer or bowel 
disorde rs. The patient does not appear to be in distress. She is 163  cm (5  ft 4 in) tall and weighs 66  kg (145  lb); BMI is 
25 kg/m2. Vital signs a re within normal limits. The abdomen is soft, nontender, and nondistended. Bowel sounds are normal. 
Rectal examination shows decreased sphincter tone; there are no masses. Soft stool is noted in the rectal vault. Test of the 
stool for oc cult blood is n egative. Which of the followi ng is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Addition of bisacodyl to the medica tion regimen  
(B) Anorectal manometry  
(C) Colonoscopy  
(D) Discontinuation of lisinopril  
(E) Recommendation to maintain a daily bowel movemen t journal for 1 month  
 
120. A 72 -year-old man is brought to the emergency department by emergency medical services approximately 45 minutes after 
losing consciousness while attempting to stand from a seated position while watching televisio n at home. He r egained 
consciousness spontaneously after 5 minutes. He has had persistent light -headedness since this episode but no oth er 
symptoms. He has felt light -headed during postural changes in the past, but he has never before lost consciousness. Medical 
history is remarkable for ischemic c ardiomyopathy with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40%. Medications are daily 
metoprolol, lisinopril, spironolactone, atorvastatin, and 81 -mg aspirin, as well as furosemide every other day. There have 
been  no changes in his medication regimen during the past year. Temperature is 35.8°C (96.4°F), pulse is 30/min, 
respirations are 24/min, an d blood pressure is 75/35 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 90% on room air. The patient is 
diaphoretic and pale. He occasionally does not respond appropriately to quest ions or commands, but he is oriented to person, 
place, and time. Skin is cool to the touch. Auscultation of the lungs discloses bilateral crackles. Which of the following is  the 
most appropriate next step in manag ement?  
 
(A) Ade nosine therapy  
(B) Continuous infusion of dobutamine  
(C) Continuous infusion of epinephrine  
(D) Defibrillation  
(E) Intuba tion and mechanical ventilation  
(F) Transcutaneous pacing  
 
121. A 25 -year-old man comes to the clinic to request vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV). Medi cal history is 
unremarkable. He takes no medications. He is sexually active with one male partner and uses condoms consistently. He is a 
member of the US Marine Corps. BMI is 21 kg/m2. Vital signs are within norma l limits. Physi cal examination shows no 
abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Admi nister the HPV vaccine  
(B) Obtain HPV serologic testing  
(C) Perform an anal Pap smear for cytologic examination  
(D) Use motivational interviewing to encourage abst inence  
 
122. A 55 -year-old woman with long -standing hypertension comes to the office because of a 5 -month history of fatigue that 
worsens when she walks upstairs or exerts herself. At least three times weekly she h as shortness of  breath requiring the use of 
three pillows to sleep at night. She has not had chest pain. She has been an established pat ient for 10 years. During this time 
her hypertension had been well controlled with hydrochlorothiazide therapy; however, 2 months ago she developed increased 
blood pressure and lisinopril was added to her medication regimen. Medical history also is significant for mitral valve 
regurgitation that was evaluated by a cardiologist 3 years ago, at which time the patient was asym ptomatic. BMI i s 28 kg/m2. 
Temperature is 36.7°C (98.0°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 150/85 mm Hg.  Lungs are 
clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination discloses a diminished S 1, an audible S 3, and a high -pitched grade 4/6 systolic 
murmur radiating to the left axilla. Ex amination of the extremities shows 1+ pitting edema to the middle of the tibia 
bilaterally. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Add amlodipine to her medication r egimen  
(B) Eval uate her for valve replacement  
(C) Increase the doses of hydrochlorothiazide and lisinopril  
(D) Recommend a low -sodium di et that includes low -fat dairy products and fresh fruits and vegetables  
(E) Recommend starting a low -impact aerobic exercise regimen for 30 minutes daily  
 
123. A 68 -year-old man is admitted to the hospital because of a 2 -month history of gradually worsening dyspnea and swelling of 
the lower extremities. Medical history also is remarkable for obstructive sleep apnea. The patie nt takes no med ications. BMI 
is 40 kg/m2. On admission, temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 84/min, respirations are 28/min, and bl ood pressure is 
142/78 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 89% on room air. Auscultation of the lungs discloses decreased breath sounds on the 
right. Chest percussion  discloses dullness and decreased fremitus. There is bilateral pedal edema. Chest x -ray shows a pleural 
effusion. Ultrasonography -guided thoracentesis is done and discloses serosanguineous fluid; results of laboratory studies are 
shown: 
 
Serum   Pleural fluid    
 Lactate dehydrogenase  189 U/L   pH 7.33 
 Protein     Lactate dehydrogenase  169 U/L  
  Total  5.3 g/dL   Protein    
      Total  3.9 g/dL  
 
Cultures and cytology of the pleural fluid are negative. Which of the follo wing is the mos t appro priate next step in 
management?  
 
(A) Bronchoscopy  
(B) CT scan of the chest  
(C) Echocardiography  
(D) Furosemide therapy  
(E) Moxifloxacin therapy  
 
124. A 46 -year-old woman comes to the office for a routine health maintenance examination. She reports no symptoms. Medical 
history is remarkable for polycystic kidney disease, hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and hypothyroidism. The kidney 
disease was diagnosed 5 years ago; CT scan at that time showed enlarged kidneys with extensive cyst s bilaterally. 
Medications are rosuvastatin, lisinopril, glyburide, and levothyroxine. BMI is 32 kg/m2. Temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), 
pulse is 88/min, respirations are  16/min, and blood pressure is 138/82 mm Hg. Oxygen saturation is 100% on room air. 
Cardiopulmonary examination discloses no abnormalities. Muscle strength is 5/5 in all extremities and deep tendon reflexes 
are 2+ throughout all extremities. Results of fasting laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Serum    Plasma    
 Cholesterol     Copeptin  2.0 pmol/L (N=1 –12) 
  Total  220 mg/dL  Urine    
  HDL  82 mg/dL   Na+ 25 mEq/L (N<25)  
  LDL  110 mg/dL      
 Triglycerides  140 mg/dL      
 Urea nitrogen  30 mg/dL      
 Creatinine  2.1 mg/dL      
 Na+ 140 mEq/L      
 K+ 4.0 mEq/L      
 Cl– 102 mEq/L      
 HCO 3– 26 mEq/L      
 Uric acid  3.0 mg/dL      
 
Which of the following findings most strongly indicates a poor prognosis in this patient?  
 
(A) BMI  
(B) Kidney function  
(C) Number of kidney cysts  
(D) Plasma copeptin concentration  
(E) Seru m LDL concentration  
(F) Urine sodium concentration  
 
 
125. A 48 -year-old woman is referred to the office because a fingerstick blood glucose concentration measured at a health fair 
4 days ago was 200  mg/dL. Medical history is unremarkable and she takes no medica tions. BMI is 30  kg/m2. Temperature is 
37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is 84/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 129/79  mm Hg. The patient is not in acute 
distress. Physical examination discloses no abnormalities. Results of fasting laboratory studi es obtained in preparation for 
today's visit are show n: 
 
Serum    Blood    
 Glucose  146 mg/dL   Hemoglobin A 1c 8.3%  
    Urine    
      Microalbumin  <30 mg/24 h  
 
The patient is counseled regarding lifestyle modifications. In addition to metformin, which of the following is the most 
appropriate pharmacotherapy?  
 
(A) 81 -mg Aspirin  
(B) Chlorthalidone  
(C) Lisinopril  
(D) Metoprolol  
(E) No additional pharmacotherapy is indicated  
 
126. A 65 -year-old man who has been your patient for 5 years comes to the office because  he has noticed slowly progressive 
deformity of his left lower leg. He says, "My leg seems to be a lot more bowed than I remember; it didn't look this way last 
year." On further questioning, he reports that he has had aching pain in his left leg and hip fo r the past month, and that he has 
been taking ibuprofen daily for pain relief without much effect. He identifies as Swedish American. Physical examination is 
normal with t he exception of valgus deformity of the left lower leg, with pain on palpation over t he tibial shaft. X -rays of the 
lower leg show cortical thickening and intramedullary sclerosis in the tibia. Which of the following is the most appropriate 
pharmacotherapy?  
 
(A) Alendronate, orally  
(B) Calcitonin, intramuscularly  
(C) Calcitonin, nasally  
(D) Mithramycin, intravenously  
(E) Naproxen, orally  
 
127. A 46 -year-old man with a 7 -year history of spondylolisthesis and resulting chronic low back pain comes to the office for a 
refill of his sustained -release oxycodone. He reports persistent back pain for the past 2 months and requests an increase in the 
dose of oxycodone. He has had two previous unsuccessful back surgeries. The patient's friend, who drove him to the office, 
informed the nurse that he thinks the patient has been selling his oxycodone on the  street. The patient's medical history is 
otherwis e unremarkable and he takes no other medications. Vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination 
disclose s reproducible pain over the low back but no obvious muscle spasms. There is a well -heale d surgical scar over the 
lumbar spine. Straight -leg raisin g test is negative bilaterally. The remainder of the physical examination, including 
neurologic examination, discloses no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?  
 
(A) Discontinue oxycodone  
(B) Notify the police  
(C) Order a random urine test for oxycodone  
(D) Refer the patient to a methadone clinic  
(E) Switch oxycodone to a differe nt pain medication  
 
128. A 40 -year-old woman, gravida 2, para 2, comes to the office becaus e of a 1 -month history of weakness and intermittent 
diarrh ea. She also reports frequent palpitations and says she has felt shaky and warm during the past 2  weeks. She has lost 
9 kg (20 lb) during the past 2  months and was initially excited about the weight  loss. Medical history is remarkable for two 
cesarean deliveries at ages 20 and 22  years. She takes no medications. Family history is remarkable for glaucoma diagnosed  
in her maternal grandfather at age 65  years. The patient does not smoke cigarettes, drin k alcoholic beverages, or use other 
substances. She is 173  cm (5 ft 8 in) tall and weighs 54  kg (120 lb); BMI is 18  kg/m2. She appears anxious and is sweating 
mildly. Temperature is 37.4°C (99.4°F), pulse is 115/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pres sure is 140/90  mm Hg. 
Physical examination discloses bilateral lid lag and exophthalmos. There is mildly diffuse enlargement of the thyroid with no  
discrete palpable n odules. Cardiac examination discloses a regular rate and rhythm. There is a fine resting tremor of both 
hands and hyperreflexia in all extremities.  Results  of laboratory studies show a serum thyroid -stimulating hormone 
concentration of 0.2 μU/mL. Without treatment, which of the following is most likely to develop in this patient?  
 
(A) Chronic kidney disease  
(B) Congestive heart failure  
(C) Fibromyalgia  
(D) Glaucoma  
(E) Multiple sclerosis  

129. A 32 -year-old woman, gravida 2, para 2, who is 3 months post partum and breast -feeding, is admitted to the hospital because 
of a warm, tender, erythematous  lump in her right breast that has increased in size durin g the past week despite applied heat 
and cephalexin therapy. She has repeatedly pumped milk from that breast but her symptoms have not improved. The patient's 
pregnancy was complicated by preterm la bor, for which she was hospitalized for 1  week prior to giving birth via vaginal 
delivery at 32  weeks ' gestation. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable. She takes a prenatal vitamin and is allergic to 
sulfa -containing medications. On admission, the pat ient appears flushed. Temperature is 38.4°C (101.1°F), pul se is 114/min, 
respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 120/76  mm Hg. Physical examination discloses a warm, 10 ×  10-cm, 
erythematous, tender mass in the upper outer quadrant of the right brea st. The mass is not fluctuant. Several enlarged, tender 
lymph nodes are palpable in the right axilla.  Ultrasonography -guided aspiration of the mass is scheduled. Which of the 
following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy at this time?  
 
(A) Intravenous ampicillin -sulbactam  
(B) Intravenous cefazolin  
(C) Intrave nous piperacillin -tazobactam  
(D) Intravenous vancomycin  
(E) Oral dicloxacillin  
 
130. A 34 -year-old man is referred to the office by his new employer because of a positive PPD skin test. Medical histor y is 
remarkable for three episodes of scabies during the past year. He previously harvested asparagus  at a local farm but says he 
recently acquired a position at the local nursing home; part of the required examination was to have the PPD skin test. His 
test result was positive with 15 mm of induration. Chest x -ray shows no abnormalities. His 32 -year-old wife and six children, 
who range in age from 12 years to 16 months, live in the same house. The patient is started on isoniazid therapy. Which of 
the follo wing is the most appropriate next step?  
 
(A) Administer PPD skin tests to the whole family  
(B) Obtain  interferon gamma release assay  
(C) Order sputum cultures and gastric washings for the whole family  
(D) Schedule another chest x -ray in 3 months  
(E) Start the patient's children on isoniazid therapy  
 
131. Patient  Information  
 Age: 62 years  
 Gender: M, self -identified  
 Race/Ethnicity: African American, self -identified  
 Site of Care:  emergency department  
 
 History  
 Reason for Visit/Chief Concern: "I passed ou t suddenly at home."  
 
 History of Present Illness:  
 • collapsed while making breakfast; quickly rega ined consciousness according to his wife  
 • does not recall any precipitating factors or symptoms prior to the episode  
 • the fall was not witnessed, but h is wife found him within 1 minute of hearing him fall and called for ambulance  
 • has chest and back pain that does not radiate  
 • pain is constant and "crushing"  
 • pain rated as 10/10  
 • unable to get comfortable; nothing alleviates the pain  
 Past Medica l History:  
  • hypertension  
Medications:  
• amlodipine  
 Allergies:  
 • no known drug allergies  
 Psyc hosocial History:  
 • drinks one to two alcoholic beverages daily  
 • does not smoke cigarettes  
 
This item continues on the following page.  
 
  
 Physical Examination  
 
Temp  Pulse  Resp  BP O2 Sat Ht Wt BMI 
36.4°C  104/min  20/min  80/38 mm Hg  94% 183 cm  100 kg  30 kg/m2 
(97.5°F)        on RA  (6 ft)  (220 lb)    
 
• Appearance: alert; visibly uncomfortable  
• HEENT: PERRL; ocular movements intact; oral mucosa pink and moist  
• Pulmonary: shallow breath sounds  
• Cardiac: tachycardia; diastolic murmur  
• Abdominal: nondistended, nontender to palpation  
• Extremities : radial pulses 1+; femoral pulses thready bilaterally  
• Neurologic: fully oriented; cranial nerves grossly intact; no focal deficits  
 
Diagnostic Studies  
• ECG: nonspecific ST -segment and T -wave changes  
• CT angio graphy of the chest: shown  
 
Question:  Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?  
 
(A) Coronary angiography  
(B) CT scan of the head  
(C) Norepinephrine infusion  
(D) Placem ent of an intra -aortic balloon pump  
(E) Replacement of the aortic root  
 
132. A 63 -year-old man is broug ht to the emergency department by his wife because of a 2 -day history of double vision, feeling 
off-balance, difficulty walking, and leaning to his right s ide while standing. He also has had sore throat, hoarsenes s, difficulty 
swallowing and talking, and fatigue during this time. He had severe stabbing pain on the right side of his face a few minutes  
before his other symptoms began. The severity of his sympt oms has been constant since onset. The patient is right -hand 
dominant but h e has had difficulty accur ately using his right arm during this time. When he tries to eat, his right forearm and 
hand do not accurately guide food to his mouth. He has not had a fe ver. He has hypertension treated with lisinopril. 
Temperat ure is 37.2°C (99.0°F), pulse is 75/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 148/98 mm Hg. Oxygen 
saturation is 98% on room air. On examination, the patient leans to the right while seate d. The left pupil measures 6 mm and 
constricts to 4 mm in response to light ; the right pupil measures  4 mm and constricts to 3 mm in response to light. There is no 
conjunctival icterus. There is horizontal and rotational nystagmus on right gaze. The fast p hase of nystagmus is to the left. 
There is mild right ptos is. The patient can hear finger rubs and whispers bilaterally. The right soft palate does not elevate 
with phonation; the patient's voice is hoarse, and he has dysarthric speech. Peripheral pulses a re 2+ throughout. Muscle 
strength, bulk, and tone are normal in all extremi ties. Deep tendon reflexes  are 1+ throughout. Babinski sign is absent 
bilaterally. Sensation to pain and temperature is decreased over the right side of the face, the left extremiti es, and the left side 
of the trunk. Finger -nose testing sh ows dysmetria on the right only. Gait is broad based, and the patient leans to the right 
while walking. Based on these findings, this patient is most likely to develop which of the following?  
 
(A) A chalasia and gastroparesis  
(B) Angle -closure glaucoma  
(C) Orthostatic hypertension  
(D) Sleep -related hypoventilation  
(E) Third -degree atrioventricular block  
  
133. Patient Information  
 Age:  75 years  
 Gender:  F, self -identified  
 Ethnicity:  unspecified  
 Site of C are: hospital  
 
 History  
 Reason for Visit/Chief Concern:  "I've felt tired for a while and I've been bruising easily."  
  
 History of Present Illness:  
 • 3-week history of progressively worsening bruising and fatigue  
 • gradual onset of symptoms  
• no fever, cough, urinary symptoms, chest pain, dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or lower extremity 
edema  
 Past Medical History:  
 • 5-year history of hy perthyroidism  
 • 10-year history of hyperlipidemia  
 • 15-year history of coronary artery disease  
Medications:  
• carvedilol  
• lisinopril  
• atorvastatin  
• methimazole  
• daily aspirin  
 Allergies:  
• no known drug allergies  
Family History:  
• father: deceased at age 56 years from myocardial infarction  
Psychosocial History:  
• does not smoke cigarettes, drink alcoholic beverages, or use substances or non -prescribed drugs  
 
Physical Examination  
 
Temp  Pulse  Resp  BP O2 Sat Ht Wt BMI  
37.8°C  63/min  14/min  135/78 m m Hg  96% 155 cm  61 kg  26 kg/m2 
(100.0°F)        on RA  (5 ft 1 in)  (135 lb)    
 
• Appearance: in no  distress; alert  
• HEENT: oropharynx without exudate  
• Pul monary: clear to auscultation  
• Cardiac: normal S 1 and S 2 with no murmurs, rubs, or gallops  
• Abdominal: bowel sounds normoactive; soft, nontender  
• Extremities: no edema or tenderness  
• Neurologic:  oriented to person, place, and time  
 
 
 
 This item continues on the following page.  
 
  
Diagnostic Studies:  
 
Serum    Blood    
 Na+ 137 mEq/L   Hematocrit  28% 
 K+ 4.3 mEq/L   Hemoglobin  9.3 g/dL  
 Cl− 110 mEq/L   WBC  1200/mm3 
 HCO 3− 22 mEq/L   Platelet count  43,000/mm3 
 Urea nitrogen  12 mg/dL  Urine    
 Creatinine  1.2 mg/dL   Specific gravity  1.010 (N=1.003 –1.029) 
 Albumin  3.6 g/dL   Leukocyte esterase  Negative  
     Nitrite  Negative  
     WBCs  0/hpf  
     RBCs  0/hpf  
 
• ECG: sinus rhythm without ST changes  
• chest x -ray: no abnormalities  
 
Question:  Whic h of the following medications is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms?  
 
(A) Aspirin  
(B) Atorvastatin  
(C) Carvedilol  
(D) Lisinopril  
(E) Methimazole 
 
134. A 26 -year-old man is brought to the emergency department 30 minutes after his roommate found  him confused at home with 
a bump on the left side of his head and fresh urine on the floor. On arrival, the patient is confused but his mental status 
returns to normal shortly after arrival. The patient is a medical student, and the last thing he remember s is coming home from 
class 30 minutes before he was found. He has not had dizziness, blurred vision, fever, or nausea. Medical history is 
remarkable for bacterial  meningitis 5 years ago, an anterior cruciate ligament injury sustained while playing basketb all 10 
years ago, and unilateral renal agenesis with prote inuria. His only medication is lisinopril. He stayed awake all night twice 
during the past week to study for final examinations. He works the night shift at a fast -food restaurant on weekends. He ha s 
smoked one -half pack of cigarettes daily for 5 years. He drinks four 12 -oz beers weekly. He uses cannabis three times 
weekly. He usually drinks one to two cups o f coffee daily but has been drinking 48 oz of coffee daily for the past 2 days. 
BMI is 27 kg/ m2. Temperature is 36.9°C (98.5°F), pulse is 88/min, respi rations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm 
Hg. Oxygen saturation is 96% on room air. Physical examination shows blood in the mouth and bite marks on the left lateral 
aspect of the tongue. T he remainder of the physical examination, including a neurologic examination, discloses no 
abnormalities. Results of serum laboratory studies are shown:  
 
Urea nitr ogen  20 mg/dL  
Creatinine  0.8 mg/dL  
Na+ 134 mEq/L  
K+ 4.8 mEq/L  
Cl− 104 mEq/L  
HCO 3− 22 mEq /L 
Glucose  88 mg/dL  
 
Urine toxicology screening results are negative, and blood alcohol concentration is 0 mg/dL. MRI of the brain and EEG 
disclose no abnormalities. In addition to decreasing his caffeine intake, which of the following recommendations is  most 
likely to prevent recurrent seizures in this patient?  
 
(A) Alcohol avoidance  
(B) Discontinuation of lisinopril  
(C) Maintenance of adequate sleep  
(D) Occupati on change  
(E) Tobacco cessation  
 
135. A 33 -year-old woman is admitted to the hospital because o f a 3 -day history of fever, shortness of breath, and progr essive 
cough productive of dark yellow sputum. She felt well before the onset of symptoms. Use of cough suppressant and 
acetaminophen has provided no relief. She has a 5 -year history of myasthenia g ravis. Her current medications are 
pyridostigmine and an oral contraceptive. Temperature is 38.9°C (102.0°F), pulse is 104/min, respirations are 16/min, and 
blood pressure is 138/72 mm Hg. Oxygen sat uration is 94% on oxygen at 4 L/min by nasal cannula. She  is alert and appears 
fatigued. She coughs intermittently throughout the examination. Mucous membranes are dry. Pulmonary examination 
discloses crackles and rhonchi in the left upper lung field. The remainder of the examination shows no abnormalities. X -ray 
of the chest shows a patchy infiltrate in the left upper lobe. Which of the following is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy  
for this patient at this time?  
 
(A) Amoxicillin -clavulanic acid  
(B) Azithromycin  
(C) Cefepime and tobramycin  
(D) Ceftriaxone and  doxycycline  
(E) Levofloxacin  
(F) Trimethoprim -sulfamethoxazole  
 
136. A 2-week -old male newborn, who was delivered at 34 weeks' gestation, is being urgently evaluated because the nurses have 
reported recent decreases in his oxygen saturation and blood pres sure. The newborn was diagnosed with respiratory distress 
syndrome shortly after his birth and he has required continued adjustments to his mechanical ventilation settings, which now 
show a positive end -expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 10 c m H 2O, a ventilator  rate of 50/min, a peak inspiratory pressure of 
32 cm H2O, and an F IO2 of 0.80. The patient weighs 1600 g (3  lb 9 oz). Now temperature is 36.8°C (98.2°F), pulse is 
200/min, respirations are 50/min, and palpable blood pressure is 22  mm Hg. Oxygen saturation  is 78%. Physical examination 
shows cyanosis and poor perfusion to the extremities. Breath sounds are present bilaterally. A fluid bolus is initiated 
intravenously. Chest x -ray ordered 15  minutes ago is obtained and is shown. Which of th e following is the most appropriate 
management of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Insert ion of a central venous catheter  
(B) Median sternotomy  
(C) PEEP reduction to 6 cm H 2O 
(D) Pericardiocentesis  
(E) Placement of a left chest tube  
 
137. A 14 -year-old boy is brought to the offic e by his parents because of a 3 -month history of fatigue, recurrent abdominal pain, 
and 7 -kg (15 -lb) weight loss. He rates the abdominal pain at its worst as a 6 on a 10 -point scale and notes that the pain is 
associated with loose bowel movements. His stoo l has not contained mucus or blood. The symptoms have caused him to miss 
approximately 20 days of school during the past semester. In addition, the patient has developed two to three recurrent mouth  
ulcers. He has not had any rashes, chest pain, difficulty  breathing or swallowing, or joint symptoms, though his heels ache 
slightly when he walks. Medical history is unremarkable and he takes no medications. He is 150 cm (4 ft 11 in; 5th 
percentile) tall and weighs 36 kg (80 lb; 3rd percentil e). Vital signs are  normal. Auscultation of the heart discloses an S 1 and 
normally split S 2, and no murmur. Abdominal examination discloses mild distention, diffuse tenderness to palpation, and 
mild fullness in the right lower quadra nt. Nail beds appear normal. There is no p eripheral edema or arthritis. Neurological 
examination shows no focal findings. Which of the following is the most likely complication of this patient's condition?  
 
(A) Anal fistula  
(B) Colonic carcinoma  
(C) Diabetes mellitus  
(D) Progres sive pulmonary fail ure 
(E) Toxic megacolon  