1. A 67-year-old woman with congenital bicuspid aortic valve is admitted to the hospital because of a 2-day history of
fever and chills. Current medication is lisinopril. Temperature is 38.0°C (100.4°F), pulse is 90/min, respirations are
20/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. Cardiac examination shows a grade 3/6 systolic murmur that is best
heard over the second right intercostal space. Blood culture grows viridans streptococci susceptible to penicillin. In
addition to penicillin, an antibiotic synergistic to penicillin is administered that may help shorten the duration of this
patient's drug treatment. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism of action of this additional antibiotic
on bacteria?
(A) Binding to DNA-dependent RNA polymerase
(B) Binding to the 30S ribosomal protein
(C) Competition with p-aminobenzoic acid
(D) Inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase
(E) Inhibition of DNA gyrase
2. A 12-year-old girl is brought to the physician because of a 2-month history of intermittent yellowing of the eyes and
skin. Physical examination shows no abnormalities except for jaundice. Her serum total bilirubin concentration is
3 mg/dL, with a direct component of 1 mg/dL. Serum studies show a haptoglobin concentration and AST and ALT
activities that are within the reference ranges. There is no evidence of injury or exposure to toxins. Which of the
following additional findings is most likely in this patient?
(A) Decreased activity of UDP glucuronosyltransferase
(B) Gallstones
(C) Increased hemolysis
(D) Increased serum alkaline phosphatase activity
(E) Ineffective erythropoiesis
3. During an experiment, drug X is added to a muscle bath containing a strip of guinea pig intestinal smooth muscle.
Agonists are added to the bath, and the resultant effects on muscle tension are shown in the table.
Agonist  Muscle Tension Before Drug X (g)  Muscle Tension After Drug X (g)  
Vehicle  6.0 6.1 
Acetylcholine  11.3 18.5 
Norepinephrine  4.1 4.2 
Which of the following types of drugs is most likely to produce effects most similar to those of drug X? 
(A) α1-Adrenergic antagonist
(B) β-Adrenergic antagonist
(C) Cholinesterase inhibitor
(D) Monoamine oxidase inhibitor
(E) Muscarinic antagonist
4. A 30-year-old woman, gravida 2, para 0, aborta 1, at 28 weeks' gestation comes to the office for a prenatal visit. She
has had one previous pregnancy resulting in a spontaneous abortion at 12 weeks' gestation. Today, her vital signs are
within normal limits. Physical examination shows a uterus consistent in size with a 28-week gestation. Fetal
ultrasonography shows a male fetus with no abnormalities. Her blood group is O, Rh-negative. The father's blood
group is B, Rh-positive. The physician recommends administration of Rh o(D) immune globulin to the patient. This
treatment is most likely to prevent which of the following in this mother?
(A) Development of natural killer cells
(B) Development of polycythemia
(C) Formation of antibodies to RhD
(D) Generation of IgM antibodies from fixing complement in the fetus
(E) Immunosuppression caused by RhD on erythrocytes from the fetus
5. A 55-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of shortness of breath and confusion for
4 hours. He has hypertension and chronic kidney disease requiring hemodialysis. An ECG shows low voltage with
electrical alternans. Physical examination is most likely to show which of the following findings?
Blood Pressure  Jugular Venous  Pulsus  
(mm Hg)  Pulse (/min)  Pressure  Paradoxus  
(A) 85/60 120 increased  increased  
(B) 85/60 120 increased  normal  
(C) 85/60 120 normal  normal  
(D) 120/80 80 increased  increased  
(E) 120/80 80 normal  increased  
(F) 120/80 80 normal  normal  
6. A 52-year-old woman begins pharmacotherapy after being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Four weeks
later, her hepatic glucose output is decreased, and target tissue glucose uptake and utilization are increased. Which
of the following drugs was most likely prescribed for this patient?
(A) Acarbose
(B) Glyburide
(C) Metformin
(D) Nateglinide
(E) Repaglinide
7. An asymptomatic 44-year-old man is found to have HIV infection during routine screening prior to donating blood.
A complete blood count done at the time of the screening shows:
Hemoglobin  10 g/dL  
Hematocrit  30% 
Leukocyte count  4600/mm3 
Platelet count  15,000/mm3 
Prothrombin time  12 sec (INR=1.1)  
Partial thromboplastin time  23 sec  
Which of the following physical findings is most likely in this patient? 
(A) Deep venous thrombosis
(B) Hemarthrosis
(C) Petechiae
(D) Subungual hemorrhage
(E) Visceral hematoma
8. A 23-year-old woman with bone marrow failure is treated with a large dose of rabbit antithymocyte globulin. Ten
days later, she develops fever, lymphadenopathy, arthralgias, and erythema on her hands and feet. Which of the
following is the most likely cause of these symptoms?
(A) Cytokine secretion by natural killer cells
(B) Eosinophil degranulation
(C) Immune complex deposition in tissues
(D) Polyclonal T-lymphocyte activation
(E) Widespread apoptosis of B lymphocytes
9. After being severely beaten and sustaining a gunshot wound to the abdomen, a 42-year-old woman undergoes
resection of a perforated small bowel. During the operation, plastic reconstruction of facial fractures, and open
reduction and internal fixation of the left femur are also done. Thirty-six hours postoperatively, she is awake but not
completely alert. She is receiving intravenous morphine via a patient-controlled pump. She says that she needs the
morphine to treat her pain, but she is worried that she is becoming addicted. She has no history of substance use
disorder. She drinks one to two glasses of wine weekly. Which of the following initial actions by the physician is
most appropriate?
(A) Reassure the patient that her chance of becoming addicted to narcotics is minuscule
(B) Maintain the morphine, but periodically administer intravenous naloxone
(C) Switch the patient to oral acetaminophen as soon as she can take medication orally
(D) Switch the patient to intramuscular lorazepam
(E) Switch the patient to intravenous phenobarbital
10. A 22-year-old woman comes to the office because of a 4-day history of an itchy, red rash on her right arm. She has
no history of major medical illness and takes no medications. She says she has recently used a new hair dye. She is
165 cm (5 ft 5 in) tall and weighs 61 kg (135 lb); BMI is 23 kg/m2. Her temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is
70/min. respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 115/70 mm Hg. Examination of the right forearm shows the
findings in the photograph. Which of the following ligand → receptor pairs most likely played a primary role in the
proliferation of the T lymphocytes present at the site of the rash in this patient?
(A) CD2 on T lymphocytes → inte rcellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-3 on epidermal Langerhans cells
(B) CD28 on T lymphocytes → CD80 on epidermal Langerhans cells
(C) CD40L on T lymphocytes → CD40 on epidermal Langerhans cells
(D) CD45 on T lymphocytes → CD28 on epidermal Langerhans cells
(E) Lymphocyte function-associated antigen- 1 on T lymphocytes → ICAM1 on epidermal Langerhans cells
11. Six healthy subjects participate in a study of muscle metabolism during which hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia
is induced. Muscle biopsy specimens obtained from the subjects during the resting state show significantly increased
concentrations of malonyl-CoA. The increased malonyl-CoA concentration most likely directly inhibits which of the
following processes in these subjects?
(A) Fatty acid oxidation
(B) Fatty acid synthesis
(C) Gluconeogenesis
(D) Glycogenolysis
(E) Glycolysis
(F) Oxidative phosphorylation
12. Over 1 year, a study is conducted to assess the antileukemic activity of a new tyrosine kinase inhibitor in patients
with chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis. All patients enrolled in the study are informed that they would be
treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor. They are assigned to successive dose cohorts of 300 to 1000 mg/day of the
drug. Six to eight patients are assigned to each dose. Treatment efficacy is determined based on the results of
complete blood counts and bone marrow assessments conducted regularly throughout the study. This study is best
described as which of the following?
(A) Case-control study
(B) Crossover study
(C) Open-labeled clinical trial
(D) Randomized clinical trial
(E) Single-blind, randomized, controlled trial
13. A 63-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of a 4-day history of increasingly severe left leg
pain and swelling of his left calf. He also has a 1-month history of increasingly severe upper midthoracic back pain.
During this time, he has had a 9- kg (20-lb) weight loss despite no change in appetite. He has no history of major
medical illness. His only medication is ibuprofen. He is 180 cm (5 ft 11 in) tall and weighs 82 kg (180 lb); BMI is
25 kg/m2. His vital signs are within normal limits. On examination, lower extremity pulses are palpable bilaterally.
The remainder of the physical examination shows no abnormalities. An x-ray of the thoracic spine shows no
abnormalities. A CT scan of the abdomen shows a 3-cm mass in the body of the pancreas; there are liver metastases
and encasement of the superior mesenteric artery. Ultrasonography of the left lower extremity shows a
femoropopl iteal venous clot. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s symptoms?
(A) Carcinoid syndrome
(B) Hypercoagulability from advanced malignancy
(C) Multiple endocrine neoplasia
(D) Splenic artery aneurysm and embolic disease of the left lower extremity
(E) Superior mesenteric artery syndrome
14. A 40-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of increased facial hair growth. Her last
menstrual period was 4 months ago. She is 165 cm (5 ft 5 in) tall and weighs 70 kg (154 lb); BMI is 26 kg/m2. Her
pulse is 80/min, and blood pressure is 130/82 mm Hg. Physical examination shows temporal balding and coarse dark
hair on the upper lip and chin. Pelvic examination shows clitoral enlargement. Her serum testosterone concentration
is increased. Serum concentrations of androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone, and urinary 17-ketosteroids are
within the reference ranges. Ultrasonography of the pelvis shows a 12-cm ovarian mass. Which of the following best
describes this mass?
(A)Granulosa tumor
(B) Ovarian carcinoid
(C) Sertoli-Leydig tumor
(D) Teratoma
(E) Thecoma
15. A 35-year-old man comes to the physician because of pain and swelling of his right arm where he scraped it on a
tree branch 2 days ago. His temperature is 38.3°C (101°F). Examination of the right forearm shows edema around a
fluctuant erythematous lesion at the site of trauma. The area is extremely tender to palpation. Which of the following
is most likely the primary mechanism of the development of edema in this patient?
(A) Degranulation of eosinophils
(B) Disruption of vascular basement membranes
(C) Increased hydrostatic pressure
(D) Release of thromboxane
(E) Separation of endothelial junctions
16. A 12-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of a 2-month history of headaches and a 6-day history of
nausea and vomiting. Funduscopic examination shows bilateral papilledema. He walks with a broad-based gait. An
MRI of the brain shows a tumor in the pineal region compressing the brain stem and leading to hydrocephalus. This
patient most likely has impairment of which of the following oculomotor functions?
(A) Abduction
(B) Horizontal pursuit
(C) Optokinetic nystagmus
(D) Upward gaze
(E) Vestibulo-ocular reflex
17. A 52-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 1-day history of nausea, vomiting, and right-
sided abdominal pain that radiates to his back. He has not had fever or increased urinary frequency. He has a history
of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation. Current medications are
atorvastatin, glyburide, hydrochlorothiazide, lisinopril, and warfarin. He smoked 1½ packs of cigarettes daily for 35
years until he quit 6 months ago. He has had no recent alcoholic beverage or illicit drug use. He is 188 cm (6 ft 2 in)
tall and weighs 109 kg (240 lb); BMI is 31 kg/m2. Temperature is 36.4°C (97.6°F), pulse is 88/min, respirations are
20/min, and blood pressure is 165/92 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of
96%. Physical examination discloses right upper quadrant and flank tenderness but no rebound tenderness or
guarding. CT scan of the abdomen with and without contrast shows an enlarged right kidney and wedge-shaped
areas of hypodensity; there is no evidence of nephrolithiasis. Which of the following is the strongest predisposing
risk factor for this patient's condition?
(A) Atrial fibrillation
(B) Hyperlipidemia
(C) Hypertension
(D) Past smoking history
(E) Type 2 diabetes mellitus
18. A 24-year-old man comes to the office because of a 2-day history of a red, itchy rash on his buttocks and legs. Four
days ago, he returned from a cruise to the Caribbean, during which he swam in the ship’s pool and used the hot tub.
He appears well. His vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows the findings in the
photograph. The infectious agent causing these findings most likely began to proliferate in which of the following
locations?
(A) Apocrine gland
(B) Dermis
(C) Eccrine gland
(D) Hair follicle
(E) Sebaceous gland
19. An otherwise healthy 45-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 3-week history of progressive epigastric
heartburn and a 4.5-kg (10-lb) weight loss. The pain tends to be more severe at night and occurs 1 to 3 hours after
meals during the day. He has had similar episodes with lesser intensity during the past year. Abdominal examination
shows tenderness to deep palpation. Test of the stool for occult blood is positive. Endoscopy shows a bleeding 3-cm
ulcer in the antrum of the stomach. A photomicrograph of Steiner silver-stained tissue (400x) from a biopsy of the
gastric mucosa adjacent to the ulcer is shown. Which of the following processes is most likely to be involved?
(A) Elaboration of proteases and urease with local tissue destruction
(B) Hyperacidity and gastric ulcer development
(C) Ingestion of preformed toxins in contaminated well water
(D) Spirochete invasion of gastric cells
20. A 14-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department after being hit with a baseball bat on the lateral side of
his leg immediately below the knee. He is unable to dorsiflex his foot. Which of the following nerves is most likely
injured?
(A) Common fibular (peroneal)
(B) Femoral
(C) Obturator
(D) Sural
(E) Tibial
21. A 26-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of an 8-hour history of severe back and
abdominal pain and mild but persistent vaginal bleeding. Ultrasonography of the abdomen shows a 2-cm ectopic
pregnancy in the ampulla. The ampulla has ruptured into the surrounding tissue. Fluid from this rupture will most
likely be found in which of the following locations?
(A) Lesser peritoneal cavity
(B) Mesometrium
(C) Pouch of Douglas
(D) Uterine cavity
(E) Vagina
22. A 46-year-old woman with active ankylosing spondylitis comes to the office for a follow-up examination. The use 
of various conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been ineffective. Sulfasalazine treatment also has 
not resulted in improvement. The most appropriate next step in treatment is administration of a drug that inhibits  
which of the following?
(A) CD20
(B) Cyclooxygenase-2
(C) Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4
(D) Epidermal growth factor
(E) Interleukin-1 (IL-1 )
(F) Tumor necrosis factor α
23. A 55-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 2-week history of recurrent, widespread blister formation.  
Physical examination shows lesions that are most numerous in the flexural areas including the axillae and groin. The 
blisters do not break easily, and there are no oral lesions. These blisters are most likely the result of adhesion failure  
involving which of the following?
(A) Basement membrane
(B) Dermal papillae
(C) Langerhans cells
(D) Melanocytes
(E) Merkel cells
24. A 17-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department 30 minutes after her boyfriend found her unconscious next 
to an empty bottle of acetaminophen. It is suspected that she ingested the tablets approximately 12 hours ago. Her 
serum acetaminophen concentration is markedly increased. Treatment with activated charcoal and acetylcysteine is 
initiated. Approximately 48 hours later, the patient develops jaundice, and her serum AST activity is 3000 U/L. 
Which of the following best explains the jaundice in this patient?
(A) Activation of biliverdin reductase
(B) Decreased bilirubin conjugation
(C) Decreased generation of urobilinogen
(D) Increased hemolysis
(E) Increased serum glutathione concentration
25. A 72-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 3-day history of fever, shortness of breath, difficulty  
swallowing, chest pain, and cough. She is frail. Physical examination shows tachypnea and equal pulses bilaterally.  
Percussion of the chest shows dullness over the right lower lung field. Laboratory studies show arterial hypoxemia  
and decreased PCO 2. A chest x-ray shows an area of opacification in the lower region of the right lung. Which of the 
following is the most likely cause of this patient's condition?
(A) Alveolar proteinosis
(B) Aspiration
(C) Cigarette smoking
(D) Emphysema
(E) Vasculitis 
26. A 62-year-old man is admitted to the hospital for evaluation of abdominal pain. During the interview, he responds to
the questions with a single word and sometimes with sarcastic answers. He does not engage in eye contact, and he
frowns as he tells the physician that this is the third time he has been asked these questions. Which of the following
is the most appropriate response by the physician?
(A) "Can you tell me more about your abdominal pain?"
(B) "I understand that you do not feel well, but I need to get a history here."
(C) "I'll come back once you've calmed down, and we can talk more then."
(D) "Listen, if you choose not to cooperate, I'm not going to be able to help you."
(E) "You sound upset. Tell me a little more about that."
27. A 54-year-old man comes to the physician because of episodes of fainting for 3 months. He also has had difficulty
performing daily tasks because he is easily fatigued. He had a myocardial infarction 12 years ago. His pulse is
40/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 138/85 mm Hg. Physical examination shows evidence of
cannon a waves. An ECG shows a P-wave rate of 90/min, and an R-wave rate of 40/min, with no apparent relation
between the two. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) First-degree atrioventricular block
(B) Right bundle branch block
(C) Second-degree atrioventricular block, type I
(D) Second-degree atrioventricular block, type II
(E) Third-degree atrioventricular block
28. A 42-year-old woman comes to the physician for a routine examination. She says that she has felt well except for
occasional episodes of constipation, abdominal discomfort, and mild fatigue. She was treated for a renal calculus 10
years ago and was told she had a "lazy gallbladder." Her pulse is 82/min, and blood pressure is 150/80 mm Hg.
Physical examination shows no other abnormalities. Laboratory studies show:
Erythrocyte count  3 million/mm3 
Serum  
K+ 4.5 mEq/L  
Cl– 107 mEq/L  
Ca2+ 12 mg/dL  
Phosphorus  2.2 mg/dL  
Alkaline phosphatase  95 U/L  
The most likely cause of this patient's condition is a small, well-defined nodule in which of the following locations? 
(A) Adrenal gland
(B) Anterior pituitary gland
(C) Gallbladder
(D) Kidney
(E) Parathyroid gland
(F) Thymus
29. A 72-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department by her husband because of a 1-hour history of
difficulty walking and speaking. The husband says that she was well last night but when she awoke this morning,
she had difficulty getting out of bed and her speech was slurred. She has a 20-year history of type 2 diabetes mellitus
well controlled with medication and diet. She is alert and oriented and is able to follow commands and respond
verbally, but she has impaired speech. Her pulse is 80/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is
142/88 mm Hg. Physical examination shows left-sided hemiparesis. The tongue deviates to the right when
protruded. Sensation to pinprick and temperature is normal, and proprioception and sensation to light touch are
absent over the left upper and lower extremities. Which of the following labeled sites in the photograph of a cross
section of a normal brain stem is most likely damaged in this patient?
30. A 68-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease comes to the office for a follow-up examination. She has
required hemodialysis for the past year. Initially, she did well, but within the past 3 months, she has been admitted to
the hospital for fluid overload because of poor adherence to fluid and salt restrictions. She says, "I'm so sick of being
on dialysis. Following the restrictions is really hard." Which of the following is the most appropriate initial response
by the physician?
(A) "I imagine being on dialysis is frustrating, but you don't want to die from kidney disease, do you?"
(B) "I know that this is challenging, but do you remember how difficult it is to be hospitalized?"
(C) "It is tough to change your diet and fluid intake, but what sorts of things were you doing at first when you
were following the recommendations?"
(D) "Making these changes is so difficult. Can you imagine how good you will feel once you make the changes
again?"
(E) "This is very hard to do, but you may have an easier time if you met with the dietician again."
31. During an experiment, a Southern blot analysis is done by digesting DNA samples with a single restriction
endonuclease, separating the digestion products by gel electrophoresis, and transferring them to a filter. The
investigator probes the filter by exposing it to a cDNA clone that encodes a single immunoglobulin-constant region.
The figure shows the resulting pattern with DNA samples isolated from different organs. Assuming there were no
technical errors, the Southern blot analysis results demonstrate which of the following processes?
(A) Affinity maturation
(B) Apoptosis
(C) Gene rearrangement
(D) RNA splicing
(E) Somatic hypermutation
32. A 17-year-old girl has never had a menstrual period. Physical examination shows a normal female body habitus,
normal breast development, and normal appearing external genitalia. She has no axillary or pubic hair. The patient
refuses to have a pelvic or rectal examination. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for the clinical
presentation?
(A) Androgen insensitivity
(B) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
(C) Ectodermal dysplasia
(D) A psychiatric disorder
(E) A sex chromosome mosaicism
33. A 16-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of a 3-day history of abdominal pain and vomiting; he also
has had decreased appetite during this period. The pain was initially on the right but now has become generalized.
His temperature is 38.8°C (101.8°F), pulse is 100/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is
143/83 mm Hg. Abdominal examination shows guarding with diffuse rebound tenderness. There are no palpable
masses. A CT scan of the abdomen shows a perforated appendix. Examination of peritoneal fluid from this patient
will most likely show which of the following organisms?
(A) Candida albicans
(B) Citrobacter freundii
(C) Escherichia coli
(D) Staphylococcus aureus
(E) Streptococcus pneumoniae
34. A 45-year-old woman comes to the office because of a 6-month history of hot flashes, night sweats, and insomnia.
She has not had a menstrual period during this time. She thinks she is going through menopause and asks the
physician if there are any medications that will alleviate her symptoms. Physical examination shows no
abnormalities. The result of a urine pregnancy test is negative. The physician explains that hormone therapy likely
will help and explains the risks to the patient. Which of the following is the next most appropriate physician
statement?
(A) "Could you tell me your thoughts about the hormone treatment option we have discussed?"
(B) "I have many patients with similar symptoms, and everyone responds to hormone therapy differently."
(C) "I will give you some written information to review, and then I can answer any remaining questions."
(D) "If your symptoms are really severe, the risk of hormone therapy may be worth it.”
(E) "Would you like me to tell you what I think you should do?"
35. A randomized controlled trial is conducted to assess the risk for development of gastrointestinal adverse effects
using azithromycin compared with erythromycin in the treatment of pertussis in children. Of the 100 children with
pertussis enrolled, 50 receive azithromycin, and 50 receive erythromycin. Results show vomiting among 5 patients
in the azithromycin group, compared with 15 patients in the erythromycin group. Which of the following best
represents the absolute risk reduction for vomiting among patients in the azithromycin group?
(A) 0.1
(B) 0.2
(C) 0.33
(D) 0.67
(E) 0.8
36. A 34-year-old woman with a 10-year history of hepatitis C comes to the physician because of progressive fatigue
during the past month. Her vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows that the liver is not
palpable. Serum studies show:
Albumin  3 g/dL  
Total bilirubin  1.8 mg/dL  
Alkaline phosphatase  115 U/L  
AST  53 U/L  
ALT  48 U/L  
A liver biopsy specimen shows focal areas of hepatocellular injury with infiltration of lymphocytes and early 
fibrosis. Which of the following mechanisms is the most likely cause of the ongoing hepatocyte injury in this 
patient? 
(A) Foreign peptides bound to class I MHC molecules are recognized by CD4+ T lymphocytes
(B) Foreign peptides bound to class I MHC molecules are recognized by CD8+ T lymphocytes
(C) Foreign peptides bound to class II MHC molecules are recognized by CD8+ T lymphocytes
(D) Self-peptides bound to class I MHC molecules are recognized by CD8+ T lymphocytes
(E) Self-peptides bound to class II MHC molecules are recognized by CD4+ T lymphocytes
37. A 50-year-old woman comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. Her blood pressure was 145/100 mm Hg
and 145/95 mm Hg, respectively, at two previous visits. Today, her pulse is 75/min, respirations are 15/min, and
blood pressure is 150/95 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no other abnormalities. If left untreated, which of the
following is most likely to decrease in this patient?
(A) Baroreceptor output
(B) Left ventricular stiffness during diastole
(C) Left ventricular stroke work
(D) Left ventricular wall thickness
(E) Myocardial oxygen consumption
38. A 62-year-old man comes to the physician for a follow-up examination after he was diagnosed with chronic
inflammatory interstitial pneumonitis. Following pulmonary function testing, a biopsy specimen of the affected area
of the lungs is obtained. Compared with a healthy man, analysis of this patient's biopsy specimen is most likely to
show which of the following patterns of changes in the cell populations of alveoli?
Type I Pneumocytes  Type II Pneumocytes  Fibroblasts  
(A) ↑ ↑ ↑ 
(B) ↑ ↑ ↓ 
(C) ↑ ↓ ↑ 
(D) ↑ ↓ ↓ 
(E) ↓ ↑ ↑ 
(F) ↓ ↑ ↓ 
(G) ↓ ↓ ↑ 
(H) ↓ ↓ ↓ 
39. A 31-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes mellitus comes to the physician because of an oozing, foul-smelling
wound on her foot for 2 days. Physical examination shows a 4-cm, necrotizing wound with a purplish black
discoloration over the heel. Crepitant bullae producing profuse amounts of serous drainage are seen. A Gram stain of
a tissue biopsy specimen shows gram-positive rods. The causal organism most likely produces which of the
following virulence factors?
(A) Endotoxin
(B) Fimbriae
(C) Pneumolysin
(D) Polysaccharide capsule
(E) α-Toxin
40. A 4-month-old boy with severe combined immunodeficiency receives a bone marrow transplant. Six days later, he
develops a widespread, erythematous, maculopapular rash over the trunk. Examination of a skin biopsy specimen
shows diffuse vacuolar degeneration of basal epidermal cells with a mononuclear inflammatory cell infiltrate. Which
of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s rash?
(A) Fixed drug eruption
(B) Graft-versus-host disease
(C) Immune complex deposition
(D) Mast cell degranulation
(E) Staphylococcal folliculitis
41. A 37-year-old woman with right lower extremity edema is evaluated because of the sudden onset of shortness of
breath and pleuritic chest pain. A diagnosis of pulmonary embolism is made. Which of the following signs, if
present on physical examination, would be the most specific indicator of pulmonary arterial hypertension in this
patient?
(A) Increased jugular venous pressure
(B) P 2 louder than A 2
(C) Peripheral edema
(D) Presence of an S 3
(E) Pulmonary crackles
42. A 43-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes mellitus is brought to the emergency department because of a 12-hour
history of nausea and vomiting. She says that it began after drinking champagne at a birthday party the previous
night. Three days ago, she was diagnosed with Trichomonas vaginalis  infection, and a 5-day course of
metronidazole was initiated. Current medications also include acetaminophen, lisinopril, hydrochlorothiazide, and
metformin. Her temperature is 37.2°C (99°F), pulse is 110/min, and blood pressure is 125/82 mm Hg. Physical
examination shows pallor and dry mucous membranes. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this
patient's nausea and vomiting?
(A) Accumulation of acetaldehyde
(B) Gastritis secondary to alcohol
(C) Lactic acidosis secondary to metformin
(D) Metronidazole-induced hepatotoxicity
(E) Viral hepatitis
43. A 45-year-old man comes to the physician because of right shoulder pain that began after he chopped wood 2 days
ago. Examination of the right upper extremity shows no obvious bone deformities or point tenderness. The pain is
reproduced when the patient is asked to externally rotate the shoulder against resistance; there is no weakness. In
addition to the teres minor, inflammation of which of the following tendons is most likely in this patient?
(A) Infraspinatus
(B) Pectoralis
(C) Subscapularis
(D) Supraspinatus
(E) Trapezius
44. A 44-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 6-week history of progressive numbness of his feet.
Two months ago, he completed a course of chemotherapy, including vincristine, for small cell lung carcinoma.
Physical examination shows muscle weakness of the distal portion of the feet and absent ankle jerk reflexes.
Sensation is decreased over the distal portions of the lower extremities. This patient's findings are most likely caused
by which of the following mechanisms?
(A) Apoptosis of dorsal root ganglion neurons
(B) Blockade of mitochondrial respiratory chain
(C) Decreased expression of myelin protein in Schwann cells
(D) Depolymerization of microtubules
(E) Inhibition of synaptic vesicle endocytosis
45. A 10-year-old girl is brought to the office by her mother because her school nurse thinks that she may have Marfan
syndrome. She is at the 95th percentile for height and 25th percentile for weight. Physical examination shows a
narrow palate with dental crowding, long slender extremities, and joint laxity. Molecular testing for FBN1  shows a
single nucleotide difference that does not change the amino acid at that locus. Her mother is 163 cm (5 ft 4 in) tall.
There is no clinical evidence of Marfan syndrome in the mother, but she has the same single nucleotide change as
the patient. The same nucleotide change is found in 15 of 200 individuals without Marfan syndrome. Which of the
following best describes the single nucleotide change in the patient and her mothe r?
(A) It is a disease-causing mutation in the patient and her mother
(B) It is a polymorphism
(C) It is a sequence variant of unknown significance
(D) It will change the folding of the protein
(E) It will result in a truncated protein
46. A 26-year-old woman comes to a busy emergency department because of a 2-day history of runny nose. She has no
history of major medical illness and takes no medications. Her vital signs are within normal limits. The patient has
to wait 6 hours before she is seen by a physician. She is angry with the staff and says the only reason she had to wait
this long is because she does not have insurance. In addition to apologizing to the patient, which of the following is
the most appropriate opening remark by the physician?
(A) "It is harsh to suggest that you waited because you don’t have insurance, but how can we help you feel
better today?"
(B) "It sounds like you are angry; shall I come back in a few minutes?"
(C) "Our wait time has nothing to do with insurance, so let’s talk abo ut the reason you are here."
(D) "The reason you waited so long is because we need to triage by severity."
(E) "Thank you for waiting. How can I help you today?"
47. A 26-year-old man is brought to the emergency department by ambulance 30 minutes after being shot in the leg. He
is unconscious and appears markedly pale. His pulse is 120/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is
80/60 mm Hg. Compared with a healthy adult, which of the following findings is most likely in this patient?
Arterial Baroreceptor  Systemic Vascular Pulmonary Vascular  Systemic Capillary  
 Firing Rate  Resistance   Resistance   Fluid Transfer  
(A) ↑ ↑ ↑ filtration  
(B) ↑ ↓ ↑ absorption  
(C) ↑ ↓ ↓ filtration  
(D) ↓ ↑ ↑ absorption  
(E) ↓ ↑ ↓ filtration  
(F) ↓ ↓ ↓ absorption  
48. A 36-year-old man with profound intellectual disability is brought to the physician by staff at his facility because of
increasing abdominal girth during the past 2 weeks. He is unable to speak, and no medical history is currently
available. Physical examination shows a protuberant abdomen with a fluid wave and shifting dullness. There are no
signs of trauma to the area. Laboratory studies show no abnormalities. A CT scan of the abdomen is shown. Fluid is
present in which of the following areas as indicated by the arrow?
(A) Epiploic foramen
(B) Gastrosplenic ligament
(C) Hepatorenal pouch (of Morison)
(D) Omental bursa (lesser sac)
(E) Sulcus pericolicus
49. A new test has been developed to detect the presence of a tumor-specific protein in serum. The initial evaluation of
this test shows:
Tumor  
Present  Absent  
Test Result  Positive  40 20 60 
Negative  10 30 40 
50 50 100 
Which of the following is the likelihood that a patient with a positive test from this sample has a tumor? 
(A) 0.25
(B) 0.33
(C) 0.67
(D) 0.75
(E) 0.80
50. A 75-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension is brought to the office by her daughter  
because of a 4-month history of loss of appetite. The patient has had a 6.8-kg (15-lb) weight loss during this time.  
She immigrated to the USA from Argentina 35 years ago. She is fluent in Spanish and has limited English language  
proficiency. The patient’s daughter is bilingual. The physician studied Spanish in high school. The clinic  
receptionist is bilingual. A certified interpreter is not available at the clinic, but a telephone interpreter service is 
available. Which of the following is the most appropriate person to serve as an interpreter for this patient encounter?
(A) Bilingual staff member
(B) Patient’s daughter
(C) Physician
(D) Telephone interpreter
51. During a study of renal glomeruli, a healthy animal kidney is kept in a vascular bath preparation at a constant 
afferent arterial pressure of 100 mm Hg. If the efferent arteriole is constricted with a vascular clamp, which of the 
following Starling forces is most likely to change in the glomeruli?
(A) Decreased filtration coefficient (K f)
(B) Decreased hydrostatic pressure
(C) Decreased oncotic pressure
(D) Increased hydrostatic pressure
(E) Increased oncotic pressure
52. A 2-year-old boy is brought to the physician for a well-child examination. He was delivered at term after an 
uncomplicated pregnancy. His birth weight was 3500 g (7 lb 11 oz), and Apgar scores were 8 and 10 at 
1 and 5 minutes, respectively. At the age of 15 months, physical examination showed no abnormalities, but he was 
not yet talking. Both of his parents had learning difficulties in school, and his mother stopped attending after the 
10th grade. He has a maternal uncle with cognitive disabilities. He is at the 25th percentile for height,  
15th percentile for weight, and 90th percentile for head circumference. He appears irritable, he resists making eye 
contact, and he is flapping his hands. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's condition?
(A) Creation of an alternative splice site
(B) Frameshift mutation
(C) Missense mutation
(D) Nonsense mutation
(E) Trinucleotide repeat expansion
53. A 55-year-old woman is diagnosed with parathyroid adenoma after ultrasonography of the neck showed 
a soft-tissue, hypoechoic mass at the back of the left lobe of the thyroid bed. Surgical removal of the 
mass is planned, and the patient is admitted to the hospital. During this procedure, ligation of which of 
the following vessels is most appropriate to ensure hemostasis in this patient?
(A) Ascending pharyngeal artery
(B) Costocervical trunk
(C) Inferior thyroid artery
(D) Internal thoracic artery
(E) Transverse cervical artery  
54. A 46-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 2-month history of fatigue and muscle weakness. She has
a 10-year history of hypertension treated with a thiazide diuretic. She drinks five 12-oz beers each evening and
sometimes more on weekends. Her pulse is 90/min, and blood pressure is 105/60 mm Hg while seated; pulse is
95/min, and blood pressure is 99/59 mm Hg while standing. Physical examination shows brisk reflexes. Laboratory
studies show:
Hemoglobin  12 g/dL  
Hematocrit  35% 
Serum  
K+ 3.3 mEq/L  
Glucose  110 mg/dL  
Which of the following is the most likely cause of these findings? 
(A) Adverse drug effect
(B) Alcohol intoxication
(C) Dehydration
(D) Iron deficiency anemia
(E) Orthostatic hypotension
55. A 55-year-old man who is a business executive is admitted to the hospital for evaluation of abdominal pain. He is
polite to the physician but berates the nurses and other staff. The patient's wife and two of his three adult children
arrive for a visit. The patient says with disgust that the missing child is and always has been worthless. Which of the
following is the most likely explanation for this patient's behavior?
(A) Countertransference
(B) Projection
(C) Projective identification
(D) Reaction formation
(E) Splitting
56. A study is designed to evaluate the feasibility of acupuncture in children with chronic headaches. Sixty children with
chronic headaches are recruited for the study. In addition to their usual therapy, all children are treated with
acupuncture three times a week for 2 months. Which of the following best describes this study design?
(A) Case-control
(B) Case series
(C) Crossover
(D) Cross-sectional
(E) Historical cohort
(F) Randomized clinical trial
57. A 6-year-old girl is admitted to the hospital because of a 1-week history of constant increasingly severe neck pain
and a 2-month history of severe headaches that occur three to four times weekly and last for 1 hour. She also has had
four episodes of otitis media and three urinary tract infections during the past 4 years. Today, her temperature is
37.6°C (99.6°F), pulse is 78/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is 95/63 mm Hg. Examination of the
neck shows no palpable masses, but there is generalized hyperreflexia and Babinski sign is present. CT scan of the
mastoid area shows bone destruction in the right mastoid and right internal ear. Examination of a biopsy specimen of
the retropharyngeal area shows aggregates of segmented neutrophils as well as evidence of Candida albicans .
Immunologic studies show a neutrophil count of 9800/µL, but these cells show a delay in bactericidal activity
against Staphylococcus aureus . The most likely cause of this patient’s condition is a homozy gous mutation in which
of the following genes?
(A) Catalase
(B) Lactate dehydrogenase
(C) Myeloperoxidase
(D) Nitric oxide synthase
(E) Superoxide dismutase
58. A 2-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother because of a 1-day history of severe pain, swelling, and
redness of his left thumb. The mother does not recall any trauma to the area. She says he has been eating poorly
during this period, but otherwise he has been behaving normally. He has no history of major medical illness and
receives no medications. He appears tearful. He is at the 90th percentile for length and 80th percentile for weight.
His temperature is 37.7°C (99.8°F), pulse is 100/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is 100/50 mm Hg.
Physical examination shows an oral vesicle, cervical lymphadenopathy, and the findings in the photograph. Which
of the following types of infectious agents is the most likely cause of the findings in this patient’s finger?
(A) DNA virus
(B) Gram-negative bacterium
(C) Gram-positive bacterium
(D) RNA virus
(E) Yeast
59. A 7-year-old boy who lives in Kentucky is brought to the office by his mother because of a 2-week history of
cramping abdominal pain and diarrhea. Three hours ago, the patient thought he had accidentally defecated in his
pants. The mother says that she looked in his underpants and saw something move, which she captured. She says
that it looked like an earthworm. The patient has had no fever, cough, or blood-tinged sputum. He has not traveled
recently. Physical examination, including rectal examination, shows no abnormalities. This patient most likely
acquired the causal infectious agent via which of the following modes of transmission?
(A) Black fly bite
(B) Contact with infected puppies
(C) Ingestion of soil
(D) Mosquito bite
(E) Tick bite
60. A sexually active 23-year-old man with multiple sex partners has dysuria and a yellow urethral exudate. Gram stain
of the exudate shows numerous neutrophils, many that contain intracellular gram-negative diplococci. He has had
three similar episodes of urethritis over the past 2 years. Which of the following properties of the infecting organism
best explains the reinfection?
(A) Antigenic variation
(B) Catalase
(C) Inhibition of B-lymphocyte function
(D) Inhibition of T-lymphocyte function
(E) Polysaccharide capsule
61. A 23-year-old woman comes to the physician for genetic counseling prior to conception. Her brother and maternal
uncle had Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and died at the ages of 28 and 17 years, respectively. Genetic
analysis was not performed on either relative prior to death. Serum studies show a muscle creatine kinase
concentration of 120 U/L (N=22 –198). The patient's 50-year-old mother has a serum muscle creatine kinase
concentration of 300 U/L. Which of the following is the most appropriate assessment of this patient's carrier status
for this disease?
(A) The patient has a 50% risk for developing DMD
(B) The patient has a 50% risk of having a child with DMD
(C) The patient is a carrier of the disease based on her family history of DMD
(D) The patient is not a carrier of the DMD based on her normal creatine kinase concentration
(E) The patient's DMD carrier status is uncertain because of random X inactivation
62. A 20-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 5-year history of heavy bleeding with menses that often
requires her to change her sanitary pads three times hourly. Menses occur at regular 28-day intervals. She recently
sustained a minor cut to her finger, and the bleeding took longer to stop than usual. She has not had easy bruising or
change in weight. She only takes an oral contraceptive, but she has not been sexually active for the past 6 months.
Her temperature is 37.5°C (99.5°F), pulse is 72/min, respirations are 12/min, and blood pressure is 120/66 mm Hg.
Physical examination shows mildly pale conjunctivae. Pelvic examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory
studies show:
Hemoglobin  10.5 g/dL  
Hematocrit  31.3%  
Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration  28% Hb/cell  
Mean corpuscular volume  70 μm3 
Leukocyte count  5500/mm3 
Platelet count  275,000/mm3 
Platelet aggregation studies  normal  
Prothrombin time  10.5 sec (INR=1.0)  
Partial thromboplastin time  28 sec  
A Pap smear shows no abnormalities. Which of the following hematologic disorders is the most likely cause of this 
patient's menorrhagia? 
(A) Afibrinogenemia
(B) Hemophilia A
(C) Intravascular coagulation
(D) Vitamin K deficiency
(E) von Willebrand disease
63. A 32-year-old man is brought to the emergency department 30 minutes after being struck by a car while driving his
motorcycle. He reports severe pelvic pain. On examination, there is bruising of the perineum and pain is elicited
with motion of his pelvis. Blood is noted at the urethral meatus. There is no other penile trauma. A plain x-ray
shows a fracture of the superior pubic ramus and retrograde urethrography is done to evaluate for a urethral
disruption. Which of the following portions of the urethra would be at greatest risk for injury in this patient?
(A) Intramural (pre-prostatic)
(B) Membranous
(C) Prostatic
(D) Spongy
64. A 63-year-old man is brought to the emergency department 1 hour after police found him unresponsive. His
respirations are 30/min. Crackles are heard over the left upper and the entire right lung fields. Despite appropriate
lifesaving measures, he dies. A photomicrograph of a section of the right lung obtained at autopsy is shown. Which
of the following mediators is the most likely cause of the position of the cell indicated by the arrow?
(A) Bradykinin
(B) C5a
(C)Histamine
(D) Nitrous oxide
(E) Prostaglandins
65. A 25-year-old woman comes to the office because of a 6-month history of increasingly severe low back pain and
heavy menses. Her temperature is 37.1°C (98.8°F), pulse is 75/min, respirations are 13/min, and blood pressure is
115/79 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. An endometrial biopsy specimen shows regular
tubular endometrial glands with abundant mitotic figures in the endometrial glands and stroma. Which of the
following proteins or enzymes regulate the progression of cells into this phase of this patient's menstrual cycle?
(A) AMP-dependent kinases
(B) Cyclin-dependent kinases
(C) Hexokinases
(D) Lipid kinases
(E) Urokinases
66. A 29-year-old woman is prescribed carbamazepine for trigeminal neuralgia. She has a strong family history of
osteoporosis. As a result, the physician also advises her to increase her intake of vitamin D. The most likely reason
for this recommendation is that carbamazepine may affect which of the following pharmacokinetic processes?
(A) Absorption
(B) Distribution
(C) Excretion
(D) Metabolism
(E) Protein binding
67. An 18-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of a 1-day history of fever, dizziness,
weakness, rash, nausea, and vomiting. She has been using synthetic sanitary pads and tampons since her last
menstrual period began 2 days ago. She has a history of recurrent urinary tract infections treated with trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole. Current medications also include aspirin and an herbal supplement for menstrual cramps as
needed. Her temperature is 39°C (102.2°F), pulse is 100/min, and blood pressure is 85/55 mm Hg. Physical
examination shows injected conjunctivae and a fine, erythematous rash over the trunk, palms, and soles of the feet.
Oral and pelvic examinations show erythema of the mucous membranes. Laboratory studies show:
Leukocyte count  15,000/mm3 
Segmented neutrophils  75% 
Bands  5% 
Eosinophils  1% 
Lymphocytes  15% 
Monocytes  4% 
Platelet count  100,000/mm3 
Serum  
AST  100 U/L  
ALT  80 U/L  
The patient's use of which of the following most likely increased her risk for this condition? 
(A) Aspirin
(B) Herbal supplement
(C) Sanitary pads
(D) Tampons
(E) Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
68. A 53-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 6-month history of intermittent blood in his stool. He has
had no pain with defecation. Physical examination shows a 1-cm, visible anal mass located below the dentate line. A
biopsy of the mass is scheduled. If the mass is found to be malignant, it is most appropriate to evaluate which of the
following lymph nodes for possible metastasis?
(A) Internal iliac
(B) Popliteal
(C) Sacral
(D) Superficial inguinal
(E) Superior rectal
69. A 14-year-old boy is brought to the physician for a physical examination prior to participating in sports. He appears
reluctant to remove his shirt for the examination, and says that he is embarrassed because he has grown breasts
during the past year. He is at the 50th percentile for height and weight. Physical examination shows bilateral 1.5-cm
fibroglandular masses located beneath the nipple-areolar complex and normal penis and testes. Pubic hair
development is Tanner stage 3. Serum concentrations of gonadotropic hormones, estrogens, and testosterone are
within the reference ranges. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient's breast enlargement?
(A) Breast adenocarcinoma
(B) Estradiol-secreting Leydig cell tumor
(C) Peutz-Jeghers syndrome
(D) Seminiferous tubule dysgenesis (Klinefelter syndrome)
(E) Normal development
70. A 24-year-old man is brought to the emergency department by paramedics 30 minutes after he was involved in a
motor vehicle collision in which his face struck the steering wheel. He was the unrestrained driver. On arrival, he
has moderate facial pain and double vision on upward gaze. He has no history of serious illness and takes no
medications. Vital signs are within normal limits. Examination of the left eye shows periorbital ecchymoses and
infraorbital edema. Ocular movement is restricted vertically. Examination of the right eye shows no abnormalities.
Visual acuity is 20/20 bilaterally. CT scan of the orbits is shown. The remainder of the examination is most likely to
disclose impairment of which of the following on this patient's left side?
(A) Hearing
(B) Lacrimation
(C) Pupillary reflex
(D) Saliva production
(E) Sensation over the upper lip
71. A 23-year-old woman is brought to the medical tent 2 minutes after she collapsed at the finish line of a marathon.
She has not lost consciousness; she is alert and coherent and says she feels dizzy and light-headed. She does not
have headache or nausea. She has no history of major medical illness and takes no medications. Her pulse is
120/min, and blood pressure is 85/50 mm Hg; other vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows
no other abnormalities. She is placed on a cot, her feet are elevated, and an infusion of 0.9% saline is begun. Thirty
minutes later, her pulse is 70/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. She says she feels well and begins eating
orange slices. Which of the following best describes this patient’s condition?
(A) Autonomic dysfunction
(B) Hypokalemia
(C) Hyponatremia
(D) Myocardial inflammation
(E) Orthostatic hypotension
72. A 27-year-old man comes to the emergency department because of a 3-hour history of pain around his navel. He
also has had nausea and one episode of vomiting 1 hour ago. During the past year, he has had multiple episodes of
dark stools, which last for 2 to 3 days and resolve spontaneously. He underwent an appendectomy 2 years ago. The
patient says that his current symptoms are similar to those he had during the appendicitis episode. His temperature is
39.0°C (102.2°F), pulse is 94/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 114/78 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on
room air shows an oxygen saturation of 99%. Physical examination shows rebound tenderness localized over the
right lower quadrant. Results of laboratory studies are shown:
Hemoglobin  12 g/dL  
Hematocrit  36% 
Leukocyte count  18,000/mm3 
Platelet count  350,000/mm3 
Serum  
Urea nitrogen  20 mg/dL  
Creatinine  0.7 mg/dL  
CT scan of the abdomen shows fat stranding in the mesentery of the small bowel with an area of inflammation in a 
segment of the small bowel. Urgent laparotomy shows a segment of inflamed small bowel in the terminal ileum; 
there is a 2 x 2-cm bulge in the antimesenteric border of the inflamed segment. Histologic examination of a biopsy 
specimen of this bulging area is most likely to show which of the following in this patient? 
(A) Choristoma
(B) Ciliary epithelium
(C) Endothelial cells
(D) Gastric mucosa
(E) Striated muscle
73. A 14-year-old girl is brought to the physician after her mother learned that she began having sexual intercourse with
various partners 1 month ago. She does not use condoms or other contraception. The mother is concerned about her
behavior. The patient's parents separated 3 months ago. She had been an honor student and excelled in sports and
leadership positions at school before the separation. Since the separation, however, she has become sullen, defiant,
and rebellious. She has begun smoking cigarettes, disobeying her curfew, and being truant from school. This patient
is most likely using which of the following defense mechanisms?
(A) Acting out
(B) Displacement
(C) Projection
(D) Reaction formation
(E) Sublimation
74. A 38-year-old woman, gravida 3, para 2, at approximately 36 weeks' gestation, comes to the emergency department
because of a 4-hour history of contractions. She has received no prenatal care but reports two uncomplicated vaginal
deliveries 5 and 8 years ago. She is in mild distress because of pain that she rates as a 7 on a 10-point scale.
Abdominal examination is consistent with a uterus at full term. Ultrasonography shows oligohydramnios and a full-
term fetus with a large left kidney and an empty right renal fossa. It is most appropriate to obtain specific additional
history regarding maternal use of which of the following during pregnancy?
(A) ACE inhibitors
(B) Antiepileptic drugs
(C) Marijuana
(D) Oral contraceptives
(E) Stimulants
75. A 65-year-old woman with asthma is brought to the emergency department because of shortness of breath and light-
headedness since taking her first dose of aspirin 30 minutes ago for primary prevention of coronary artery disease.
She had a similar reaction 5 years ago after taking ibuprofen. Her pulse is 120/min, respirations are 25/min, and
blood pressure is 90/60 mm Hg. Bilateral wheezing is heard over all lung fields. The most likely underlying cause of
this patient’s condition is accumulation of which of the following mediators?
(A) Endoperoxides
(B) Leukotrienes
(C) Prostacyclin (PGI 2)
(D) Prostaglandins
(E) Thromboxane
76. A 19-year-old man with asthma comes to a new physician for an initial examination. He has been treated in the
emergency department multiple times during the past 7 months because of acute exacerbations of asthma. The
patient says that he has received care only from emergency department physicians on an almost monthly basis
during the past 4 years, and he has managed his symptoms with inhaled β 2-adrenergic agonists. The patient says,
"All the doctors I've seen just don't understand me. They keep prescribing inhalers that don't work, including that
steroid inhaler they gave me recently." He has no other history of major medical illness. He does not appear to be in
respiratory distress. Mild end-expiratory wheezing is heard over all lung fields. Which of the following is the most
appropriate statement by the physician at this time?
(A) "Are you sure that you're taking your medications appropriately?"
(B) "I'm confident that I can help you with your asthma. I will order pulmonary function tests to see exactly
what the problem is."
(C) "Tell me what you know about the steroid inhalers and how they are supposed to work."
(D) "Your asthma seems particularly difficult to control. I'd like to refer you to an asthma specialist."
(E) "You're probably allergic to something at your home, so we'll need to figure out what that is before your
asthma can get better."
77. A healthy 22-year-old man participates in a study of glucose metabolism. At the beginning of the study, his serum
glucose concentration is within the reference range. He consumes an 800-calorie meal consisting of protein, fat, and
carbohydrates. He then sleeps through the night without additional food or drink. Twelve hours later, his serum
glucose concentration remains within the reference range. Which of the following mechanisms is most likel y
involved in maintaining this man's serum glucose concentration?
(A) Continued gut absorption of calories from the ingested meal
(B) Glucose release from skeletal muscle
(C) Glycogenolysis in the liver
(D) Increased leptin release from adipose tissues
(E) Inhibition of glucagon release by the pancreas
78. A 30-year-old man is admitted to the hospital for evaluation. He has a 6-week history of colicky abdominal pain and
diarrhea with occasional blood. Three days after admission, he suddenly develops peritonitis and sepsis. Despite
appropriate care, he dies. At autopsy, examination shows a fibrinous exudate over the peritoneal and serosal
surfaces, and a punctate opening is seen in the wall of a thickened loop of small intestine. Several lengths of the
small and large intestines are also thickened and adherent to one another, with marked areas of narrowing.
Photomicrographs of a section of the colon are shown. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) Colon cancer
(B) Crohn disease
(C) Diverticulitis
(D) Ischemic necrosis
(E) Ulcerative colitis
79. A 3-month-old boy is brought to the emergency department because of a 2-hour history of respiratory distress. His
pulse is 120/min, respirations are 40/min, and blood pressure is 80/50 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an
oxygen saturation of 82%. Physical examination shows cyanosis. Cardiac examination shows no murmur. A chest x-
ray shows no abnormalities. A blood sample appears brown. The most likely cause of this patient’s condition is
which of the following abnormalities?
(A) Decreased activity in the enzyme that reduces Fe3+ to Fe2+
(B) Decreased erythrocyte production
(C) Inability of the porphyrin ring to stay attached to hemoglobin
(D) Increased iron in the body
(E) Mutation of one of the codons for hemoglobin
80. A 68-year-old woman comes to the emergency department because of a 1-day history of fever and pain and swelling
of her left leg. She has a history of chronic lower extremity edema. Physical examination shows dry, scaly skin over
the lower extremities, and a swollen, erythematous, hot, and tender left calf. One day later, blood cultures grow
gram-positive, catalase-negative cocci that exhibit clear zones of hemolysis on blood agar plates. There is no growth
when bacitracin is added to the plate. Which of the following species of Streptococcus  is the most likely causal
organism?
(A) S. agalactiae  (group B)
(B) S. mitis
(C) S. pneumoniae
(D) S. pyogenes  (group A)
(E) Viridans streptococcus
81. A 62-year-old woman comes to the physician because of low back pain for 1 week. Menopause occurred 10 years
ago. Physical examination shows localized tenderness over the lumbar spine after movement. X-rays of the spine
show a compression fracture of L1-2. A DEXA scan shows decreased bone mineral density. Serum calcium and
phosphorus concentrations and serum alkaline phosphatase activity are within the reference ranges. A
bisphosphonate drug is prescribed. The expected beneficial effect of this drug is most likely due to which of the
following actions?
(A) Decreased insulin-like growth factor-1 concentration
(B) Decreased osteoclast activity
(C) Decreased osteoprotegerin production
(D) Increased 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol concentration
(E) Increased osteoblast activity
(F) Increased receptor activator of NF- κB ligand (RANKL) production
82. In a cohort study of elderly women, the relative risk ratio for hip fractures among those who exercise regularly is 1.2
(95% confidence interval of 1.1 to 1.8). Which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion about the effect
of regular exercise on the risk for hip fracture?
(A) Statistically nonsignificant increase in risk
(B) Statistically nonsignificant overall decrease in risk
(C) Statistically significant overall decrease in risk
(D) Statistically significant overall increase in risk
83. A 52-year-old man is brought to the emergency department 30 minutes after he had an episode of chest pain
radiating to his jaw while shoveling snow. His pulse is 80/min, and blood pressure is 130/70 mm Hg. The lungs are
clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination shows an S 4. While undergoing an ECG, the patient says that he feels the
chest pain returning. The most appropriate immediate treatment is a drug with which of the following mechanisms
of action?
(A) Increases cAMP concentration
(B) Increases nitric oxide concentration
(C) Inhibits potassium flux
(D) Inhibits sodium flux
84. A 24-year-old woman comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. One week ago, she was treated in the
emergency department after she accidentally spilled hot grease on her left leg while working at a fast-food
restaurant. Examination of the left lower extremity shows a 7-cm, pink, soft, granular, edematous wound. The
formation of this tissue was most likely caused by increased activity of which of the following?
(A) Complement C3b
(B) Glycosylation-dependent cell adhesion molecule-1
(C) P-selectin
(D) Stromelysin
(E) Vascular endothelial growth factor
85. A 27-year-old man is admitted to the hospital 45 minutes after being involved in a motor vehicle collision. Physical
examination shows a sluggish response to stimuli. Neurologic examination shows no other abnormalities. A skull x-
ray shows a linear, nondepressed basal skull fracture. Two weeks later, the patient develops polyuria and polydipsia.
Laboratory studies show a serum glucose concentration within the reference range, increased serum osmolality, and
decreased urine osmolality. Following the administration of desmopressin, urine osmolality increases. The beneficial
effect of this drug is most likely due to activation of which of the following?
(A) Adenylyl cyclase
(B) Ca2+ channels
(C) Janus kinase
(D) Serine kinase
(E) Tyrosine kinase
86. A 10-month-old boy is brought to the physician because of a 4-day history of fever and cough. His illness began
with low-grade fever and copious, clear nasal discharge. Two days ago he developed a moist, nonproductive cough
and rapid breathing. He has received all scheduled childhood immunizations. He attends a large day-care center and
has three school-aged siblings. His temperature is 38°C (100.4°F), pulse is 101/min, respirations are 38/min, and
blood pressure is 85/60 mm Hg. Physical examination shows nasal flaring and rhinorrhea. Chest examination shows
intercostal retractions along with bilateral, diffuse wheezes and expiratory rhonchi. The infectious agent of this
patient's condition most likely has which of the following properties?
(A) DNA genome
(B) Double-stranded nucleic acid genome
(C) Mature virion lacking viral polymerase
(D) Mediation of cell entry via a fusion protein
(E) Viability on surfaces for several weeks
87. A 17-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department 15 minutes after being stung by a bee. She has mild light-
headedness but no difficulty swallowing. Her temperature is 37.1°C (98.8°F), pulse is 100/min, respirations are
30/min, and blood pressure is 115/70 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no urticaria. Bilateral wheezing is heard
on auscultation of the chest. Which of the following types of drugs is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy for this
patient?
(A) α1-Adrenergic agonist
(B) α2-Adrenergic agonist
(C) α1-Adrenergic antagonist
(D) β2-Adrenergic agonist
(E) β2-Adrenergic antagonist
88. A 14-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of a 2-day history of a sore throat and fever that peaks in the
late afternoon. He also has a 1-week history of progressive fatigue. He recently began having unprotected sexual
intercourse with one partner. He appears ill. His temperature is 39°C (102.2°F). Physical examination shows
cervical lymphadenopathy and pharyngeal erythema with a creamy exudate. Which of the following is the most
likely diagnosis?
(A) Candidiasis
(B) Herpangina
(C) Infectious mononucleosis
(D) Mumps
(E) Syphilis
89. A 57-year-old man receives radiation therapy for a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. Despite therapy, the tumor
progressively increases in size, and he dies 6 months later. His tumor cells contain a point mutation in the p53 gene
(TP53 ), leading to an inactive gene product. Based on this finding, the progressive tumor growth despite irradiation
therapy is most likely to be related to a defect in cell cycle arrest in which of the following phases of the cell cycle?
(A) G 0
(B) G 1
(C) G 2
(D) M
(E) S
90. A 28-year-old man comes to the physician because of a 1-year history of pain with urination that has increased in
severity during the past month. He also has had episodes of blood in his urine during the past 5 years. He lived in
sub-Saharan Africa until he came to the USA 6 months ago for graduate school. His temperature is 38°C (100.4°F),
pulse is 80/min, respirations are 16/min, and blood pressure is 110/84 mm Hg. Physical examination shows
suprapubic tenderness. Laboratory studies show:
Hemoglobin  12.3 g/dL  
Hematocrit  37% 
Leukocyte count  13,400/mm3 
Segmented neutrophils  65% 
Bands  5% 
Eosinophils  5% 
Lymphocytes  22% 
Monocytes  3% 
Serum  
Urea nitrogen  75 mg/dL  
 Creatinine  3.8 mg/dL  
Urine  
Blood  3+ 
RBC  200/hpf  
WBC  100/hpf  
RBC casts  absent  
WBC casts  absent  
Imaging studies show bilateral hydroureter and hydronephrosis and foci of calcification in the region of the bladder. 
A biopsy specimen of the bladder shows marked chronic inflammation with fibrosis and scattered granulomas. 
Which of the following best explains the biopsy findings? 
(A) Exposure to a chemical toxin
(B) Interstitial cystitis
(C) Malacoplakia
(D) Schistosomiasis
(E) Vesicoureteral reflux
91. A couple comes for preconceptional genetic counseling because they both have a family history of α -thalassemia.
The woman has a minimally decreased hemoglobin concentration. Genetic studies show a single gene deletion. The
man has microcytic anemia and a t wo-gene deletion. If the two-gene deletion is in trans  (one deletion on the
maternal gene and one deletion on the paternal gene), which of the following percentages of their offspring will have
a two-gene deletion?
(A) 0%
(B) 25%
(C) 50%
(D) 75%
(E) 100%
92. A previously healthy 40-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department by her husband because of a 2-day
history of fever, lethargy, and confusion. Her temperature is 38°C (100.4°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are
18/min, and blood pressure is 140/90 mm Hg. Physical examination shows scattered petechiae and ecchymoses over
the lower extremities. Neurologic examination shows moderate generalized motor weakness. She is oriented to
person but not to place or time. Laboratory studies show:
Hemoglo bin 9 g/dL  
Hematocrit  27% 
Leukocyte count  8000/mm3 with a normal differential  
Platelet count  15,000/mm3 
Prothrombin time  12 sec (INR=1.1)  
Partial thromboplastin time  30 sec  
Serum  
Urea nitrogen  25 mg/dL  
Lactate dehydrogenase  1000 U/L  
A peripheral blood smear shows 3+ polychromasia and 3+ schistocytes. Urine and blood cultures grow no 
organisms. A chest x-ray shows no abnormalities. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? 
(A) Acute myeloid leukemia
(B) Autoimmune hemolytic anemia
(C) Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
(D) Toxic shock syndrome
(E) von Willebrand disease
93. A 16-year-old boy is admitted to the emergency department because of a knife wound to the left side of his chest.
An x-ray of the chest shows an air-fluid level in the left side of the chest, partial collapse of the left lung, and
elevation of the stomach bubble. The mediastinum is in the midline. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
(A) Hemopneumothorax, not under tension
(B) Hemothorax, not under tension
(C) Pneumothorax, not under tension
(D) Tension hemopneumothorax
(E) Tension hemothorax
(F) Tension pneumothorax
94. A 49-year-old woman comes to the physician for a follow-up examination. She has a strong family history of
coronary artery disease. Her blood pressure has ranged from 150/95 mm Hg to 130/85 mm Hg during the previous
three visits within the past 2 months. Her blood pressure today is 140/90 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no
other abnormalities. Laboratory studies show:
Chole sterol, total  290 mg/dL  
HDL -cholesterol  40 mg/dL  
 LDL -cholesterol  190 mg/dL  
Triglycerides  350 mg/dL  
Treatment with atorvastatin and losartan is initiated. Which of the following serum findings is most likely to occur 
in this patient? 
HDL -cholesterol  Triglycerides  
(A) Decreased  decreased  
(B) Decreased  increased  
(C) Increased  decreased  
(D) Increased  increased  
(E) No change  no change  
95. A 73-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 2-month history of diffuse weakness and tingling of her
arms and legs. Neurologic examination shows weakness of the extensor and flexor muscles of the lower extremities.
Knee and ankle deep tendon reflexes are exaggerated. Sensation to vibration and position is decreased in all
extremities, but the decrease is more prominent in the lower extremities than in the upper extremities. This patient
most likely has a deficiency of which of the following vitamins?
(A) Niacin
(B) Vitamin B 1 (thiamine)
(C) Vitamin B 2 (riboflavin)
(D) Vitamin B 6 (pyridoxin e)
(E) Vitamin B 12 (cyanocobalamin)
96. A 15-year-old girl comes to the physician because of a 3-month history of acne. Breast and pubic hair development
began at the age of 12 years. Menarche occurred at the age of 14 years. Physical examination shows scattered open
and closed comedones over the cheeks and forehead. Breast and pubic hair development are Tanner stage 5. Which
of the following is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's acne?
(A) Decreased parasympathetic stimulation to the sebaceous glands
(B) Increased estrogen stimulation of the sebaceous glands
(C) Increased responsiveness of the sebaceous glands to follicle-stimulating hormone
(D) Increased sympathetic stimulation to the sebaceous glands
(E) Stimulation of the sebaceous glands by androgens
97. A 4-year-old boy from Brazil is brought to the physician because of a 1-week history of painless swelling of his jaw
and pressure around his eyes. He is at the 80th percentile for height and weight. Physical examination shows a single
12 × 10-cm lesion in the right side of the jaw with diffuse limits and irregular edges. Photomicrographs of an
incisional biopsy specimen of the lesion are shown. Based on these findings, which of the following processes is
most likely occurring in the region indicated by the arrows?
(A) Apoptosis
(B) Necrosis
(C) Oncosis
(D) Ostosis
(E) Symptosis
98. A 51-year-old man comes to the office because of a 6-month history of a lump on his tongue that is interfering with
his speech and eating; he also has had a 6.8-kg (15-lb) weight loss during this period. He has smoked 1 pack of
cigarettes daily and has consumed six 12-oz bottles of beer on weekend nights during the past 30 years. His vital
signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows a 1.5-cm mass on the apex of the tongue. Further
evaluation of the mass confirms squamous cell carcinoma. It is most appropriate to evaluate which of the following
lymph nodes first for evidence of metastasis in this patient?
(A) Inferior deep cervical
(B) Parotid
(C) Retropharyngeal
(D) Submental
(E) Superior deep cervical
99. A 15-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his parents because of a 2-hour history of confusion
and agitation. He also has had fever, headache, stiff neck, and vomiting since he returned from summer camp 2 days
ago. His parents say he does not use illicit drugs. On arrival, he is combative and there is evidence of hallucinations.
His temperature is 40°C (104°F), pulse is 80/min, respirations are 17/min, and blood pressure is 100/70 mm Hg. A
lumbar puncture is performed. Results of cerebrospinal fluid analysis show cysts and trophozoites. The most likely
portal of pathogen entry into this patient's central nervous system is which of the following?
(A) Cavernous sinus
(B) Facial ner ve
(C) Frontal sinus
(D) Mastoid sinus
(E) Olfactory nerve
(F) Trigeminal nerve
100. A 17-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department 30 minutes after being found with a "blank stare" and flat
facial expression at a party. His pulse is 72/min, and blood pressure is 104/68 mm Hg. He is sitting upright and
appears catatonic. Physical examination shows rigidity. During the examination, he becomes hostile and attempts to
assault the physician. This patient most likely ingested which of the following drugs?
(A) Cocaine
(B) Diazepam
(C) Methamphetamine
(D) Oxycodone
(E) PCP (phencyclidine)
101. A placebo-controlled clinical trial is conducted to assess whether a new antihypertensive drug is more effective than
standard therapy. A total of 5000 patients with essential hypertension are enrolled and randomly assigned to one of
two groups: 2500 patients receive the new drug and 2500 patients receive placebo. If the alpha is set at 0.01 instead
of 0.05, which of the following is the most likely result?
(A) Significant findings can be reported with greater confidence
(B) The study will have more power
(C) There is a decreased likelihood of a Type II error
(D) There is an increased likelihood of statistically significant findings
(E) There is an increased likelihood of a Type I error
102. A 17-year-old girl is brought to the physician by her mother because she has not had a menstrual period for
6 months. The patient is unconcerned about the lack of menses. Menarche occurred at the age of 12 years, and
menses had occurred at regular 28-day intervals until they became irregular 1 year ago. She is a member of her high
school gymnastics team. She appears emaciated. She is 163 cm (5 ft 4 in) tall and weighs 40 kg (88 lb); BMI is
15 kg/m2. Her pulse is 54/min, and blood pressure is 80/50 mm Hg. Which of the following is the most likely cause
of this patient's amenorrhea?
(A) Hyperthyroidism
(B) Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism
(C) Hypothyroidism
(D) Polycystic ovarian syndrome
(E) Prolactinoma
103. A male stillborn is delivered at 32 weeks' gestation to a 30-year-old woman. The pregnancy was complicated by
oligohydramnios. Examination of the stillborn shows the absence of a urethral opening. Which of the following
additional findings is most likely in this stillborn?
(A) Congenital diaphragmatic hernia
(B) Intralobar sequestration
(C) Pulmonary hypoplasia
(D) Situs inversus
(E) Tracheoesophageal fistula
104. A 6-day-old breast-fed boy is brought to the emergency department by his mother because of poor weight gain and
irritability since delivery, and a 2-hour history of vomiting. Physical examination shows jaundice and hepatomegaly.
A reducing substance test result of the urine is positive, and a glucose oxidase test result is negative. The
concentration of which of the following metabolites in liver is most likely increased in this patient?
(A) Fructose 1,6-bisphosphate
(B) Galactose 1-phosphate
(C) Glucose 1-phosphate
(D) Glucose 6-phosphate
105. A 25-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of a 6-day history of fever, severe muscle pain,
and diffuse, painful swelling of his neck, underarms, and groin area. The symptoms began after returning from a
camping trip in New Mexico. He appears ill and lethargic and can barely answer questions. His temperature is
39.2°C (102.5°F), pulse is 120/min, respirations are 22/min, and blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg. Physical
examination shows generalized scattered black maculae. Examination of the right upper extremity shows an
erythematous, solid, tender mass on the underside of the upper extremity just above the elbow; the mass is draining
blood and necrotic material. The most effective antibiotic for this patient’s disorder will interfere with which of the
following cellular processes or enzymes?
(A) Cell wall synthesis
(B) DNA helicase
(C) Glucuronosyltransferase
(D) Proteasomal degradation
(E) Ribosomal assembly
(F) Tetrahydrofolate reductase
106. A 45-year-old man is brought to the clinic by his wife because of a 6-month history of progressive weakness; he also
has had dysphagia and a 4.5-kg (10-lb) weight loss during this period. He has had to use a wheelchair during the past
3 weeks because of the weakness. He has no other history of major medical illness and takes no medications. He is a
former financial analyst and has no known toxin exposures. He does not smoke or drink alcoholic beverages. He is
183 cm (6 ft) tall and now weighs 68 kg (150 lb); BMI is 20 kg/m2. His temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is
88/min, respirations are 18/min, and blood pressure is 138/78 mm Hg. He is mentally alert. Physical examination
shows muscle fasciculations of the upper extremities and weakness of the lower extremities. The remainder of the
physical examination is most likely to show which of the following additional findings in this patient?
(A) Atrophy
(B) Decreased visual acuity
(C) Loss of proprioception
(D) Presence of palmomental reflex
(E) Ptosis
107. A new severe respiratory illness caused by a newly identified virus is discovered. Which of the following properties
of a killed vaccine relative to a live vaccine is the most appropriate rationale for developing a killed vaccine for this
illness?
(A) Avoids the concern for reversion to virulence
(B) Develops more rapid protective immunity
(C) Is less likely to require subsequent boosters for lifelong immunity
(D) Is most likely to generate mucosal immunity
(E) Requires little safety monitoring to ensure inactivation
108. A 33-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 2-day history of mild nausea, increased urinary urgency
and frequency, and constipation. She also has had a 4.5-kg (10-lb) weight loss during the past 2 weeks and a 3-week
history of vaginal bleeding. Pelvic examination shows a nodular cervix with an irregular, friable posterior lip, and a
rock-hard, irregular, immobile pelvic mass that extends across the pelvis. Examination of biopsy specimens from the
cervix and anterior wall of the vagina show well-differentiated keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma. Which of the
following best describes the pathogenesis of this patient's disease?
(A) Inactivation of cellular p53
(B) Insertion of viral promotors adjacent to cellular growth factor genes
(C) Specialized transduction
(D) Transactivation of cellular growth factor genes by TAX
(E) Translocation of CMYC  to an Ig gene promoter
109. A 54-year-old woman with a 40-year history of type 1 diabetes mellitus comes to the office for a follow-up
examination. She is receiving hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease while awaiting a kidney transplant. As part of
her regimen, she also receives regular injections of a drug that induces reticulocyte release from the bone marrow
and stimulates a cytokine receptor that signals via the JAK/STAT pathway. This patient is most likely receiving
which of the following drugs?
(A) Erythropoietin
(B) Filgrastim
(C) Interleukin-2 (IL- 2)
(D) Platelet-derived growth factor
(E) Sargramostim
110. During a clinical study examining the effects of exercise, men between the ages of 20 and 30 years are evaluated
during a 15-minute session on a treadmill. The average pulse for the last 2 minutes of the session is 175/min. During
the last minute of exercise, various measurements are taken. Compared with the measurement before the session,
which of the following is most likely to be decreased?
(A) Cardiac output
(B) Oxygen consumption
(C) Pulse pressure
(D) Stroke volume
(E) Systolic blood pressure
(F) Total peripheral resistance
111. An 8-year-old boy is brought to the office by his mother because of a 3-day history of fever, sore throat, and itchy
eyes. He just returned from a weeklong summer camp that included hiking trips and swimming lessons in the camp-
owned swimming pool. He has no history of major medical illness and receives no medications. He appears tired.
His temperature is 39.4°C (102.9°F); other vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows
conjunctival injection and discharge and oropharyngeal erythema. The public health department reports an outbreak
of similar symptoms among the other campers and camp volunteers. Which of the following is the most likely cause
of this patient’s symptoms?
(A) Adenovirus
(B) Cytomegalovirus
(C) Epstein-Barr virus
(D) Influenza virus
(E) West Nile virus
112. A 44-year-old woman comes to the office because of a 10-month history of wide red streaks over her lower trunk
and significant weight gain in her face and abdomen. Although her appetite has increased, she has noticed that her
arms and legs have become thinner. Which of the following additional findings are most likely in this patient?
(A) Hyperkalemia and numerous bruises
(B) Hypertension and muscle weakness
(C) Hypocalcemia and hyperglycemia
(D) Hypoglycemia and fat pads between the scapulae
(E) Jaundice and thinning of the skin
113. A 12-year-old boy is brought to the physician by his mother because of a 1-month history of pain below the left
knee. His mother says, "He can usually walk around, but he hasn't been able to play in any of his soccer games since
this all began." Examination of the left knee shows warmth, swelling, and tenderness. An x-ray of the knee is shown.
Which of the following structures is attached to the abnormal anterior tibial area?
(A) Anterior cruciate ligament
(B) Gastrocnemius muscle
(C) Patellar ligament
(D) Popliteus muscle
(E) Posterior cruciate ligament
(F) Soleus muscle
114. A 65-year-old retired man comes to the office for a health maintenance examination. He has no history of major
medical illness and takes no medications. He lives in a single-family home with his cat and dog. He spends much of
his time in his basement woodworking shop. He does not smoke. His temperature is 37.0°C (98.6°F), pulse is
84/min, respirations are 12/min, and blood pressure is 138/88 mm Hg. Physical examination shows no cyanosis. The
lungs are clear. Cardiac examination shows no abnormalities. Extremity examination shows no edema. The patient
wishes to mitigate his risk for pulmonary disease. This patient is at increased risk for lung cancer because of which
of the following environmental exposures?
(A) Indoor cleaning chemicals
(B) Pet dander
(C) Polyurethane
(D) Radon
(E) Sawdust
115. A 54-year-old man comes to the physician for a follow-up examination 10 days after undergoing a stereotactic brain
operation to remove a small tumor. The operation was successful. During the procedure, he was under conscious
sedation. The patient recalls that at one point during the operation he experienced a sudden, intense feeling of
overwhelming fear. Which of the following areas of the brain was most likely stimulated at that time?
(A) Amygdala
(B) Hippocampus
(C)Mammillary body
(D) Prefrontal cortex
(E) Thalamus
116. A 30-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 2-day history of abdominal pain. She has a history of
recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, sinusitis, and pancreatitis. She has thick nasal secretions. She says that
her sweat is salty and crystallizes on her skin. Her vital signs are within normal limits. Physical examination shows
epigastric tenderness. Genetic testing for the 36 most common mutations shows a detectable mutation (G551D) in
one allele of the CFTR gene. Which of the following best explains this patient's clinical phenotype?
(A) Loss of heterozygosity of the CFTR gene has occurred in the pancreas
(B) Only one G551D allele is needed in CFTR
(C) The patient is a CFTR  obligate carrier
(D) The patient's CFTR  mutation is unrelated to her clinical phenotype
(E) The second CFTR  mutation was not detected by the testing obtained
117. A 74-year-old man with mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease comes to the physician for a follow-u p
examination. Current medications include a short- acting β 2-adrenergic agonist by metered-dose inhaler as needed.
Physical examination shows no abnormalities. At the end of the examination, he tells the physician, "I enjoy coming
to see you because you remind me of my daughter. She died 35 years ago this month." He has been a patient of this
physician for 5 years. Which of the following is the most appropriate response by the physician?
(A) "I may have to refer you to another physician who doesn't remind you of your daughter so you can focus
more on your medical condition and its treatment."
(B) "I'd like to refer you to a grief counselor so that you can work out your unresolved feelings about your
daughter's death."
(C) "I'm sorry you lost your daughter. Unfortunately, since we only have a limited amount of time, we must
now move on to your medical condition."
(D) "That makes me feel a little uncomfortable. I hope you understand."
(E) "You must miss your daughter very much. Tell me about her."
118. A 9-month-old boy is brought to the office by his mother for a well-child examination. He was born at 32 weeks’
gestation because of spontaneous rupture of membranes. Growth and development are appropriate for age. His
mother says he can sit without support and is interactive. She is concerned that he still takes two to three 1-hour naps
daily. He goes to sleep at 7 PM and awakens at 7 AM. She says he also awakens and cries at least once nightly and
settles back to sleep after drinking a bottle of formula. Physical examination shows no abnormalities. Which of the
following is the most likely explanation for this pat ient’s sleep pattern?
(A) Gastroesophageal reflux
(B) Hypoglycemia
(C) Obstructive sleep apnea
(D) Parasomnia
(E) Normal development
119. A 32-year-old man comes to the office because of a 2-year history of abnormal movements of his hands that are
worse when he feels angry or depressed. His maternal grandmother and mother, both now deceased, had similar
symptoms with onset at the ages of 53 years and 42 years, respectively. Neurologic examination shows normal
muscle strength, bulk, and tone. There is no intention tremor or dysmetria. Sensation is intact. He is unable to fix his
gaze on one point or protrude his tongue for more than 30 seconds. Deep tendon reflexes are hyperactive. Mental
status examination shows no abnormalities. This patient most likely has an anatomic abnormality in which of the
following locations?
(A) Basal ganglia
(B) Cerebellum
(C) Dorsal spinal column
(D) Frontal lobe
(E) Lateral spinal column